.\"
.\" Japanese Version Copyright (c) 2019 Yuichi SATO
.\"         all rights reserved.
.\" Translated Sat Jul  6 10:50:25 JST 2019
.\"         by Yuichi SATO <ysato444@ybb.ne.jp>
.\"
.TH SAR 1 "APRIL 2019" Linux "Linux User's Manual" -*- nroff -*-
.\"O .SH NAME
.SH 名前
.\"O sar \- Collect, report, or save system activity information.
sar \- システムの活性度情報の収集、報告、保存を行う。
.\"O .SH SYNOPSIS
.SH 書式
.B sar [ -A ] [ -B ] [ -b ] [ -C ] [ -D ] [ -d ] [ -F [ MOUNT ] ] [ -H ] [ -h ] [ -p ] [ -q ]
.B [ -r [ ALL ] ] [ -S ] [ -t ] [ -u [ ALL ] ] [ -V ] [ -v ] [ -W ] [ -w ] [ -y ] [ -z ]
.B [ --dec={ 0 | 1 | 2 } ] [ --dev=
.I dev_list
.B ] [ --fs=
.I fs_list
.B ] [ --help ] [ --human ] [ --iface=
.I iface_list
.B ] [ --sadc ]
.B [ -I {
.I int_list
.B | SUM | ALL } ] [ -P {
.I cpu_list
.B | ALL } ]
.B [ -m {
.I keyword
.B [,...] | ALL } ]
.B [ -n {
.I keyword
.B [,...] | ALL } ]
.B [ -j { ID | LABEL | PATH | UUID | ... } ]
.B [ -f [
.I filename
.B ] | -o [
.I filename
.B ] | -[0-9]+ ]
.B [ -i
.I interval
.B ] [ -s [
.I hh:mm[:ss]
.B ] ] [ -e [
.I hh:mm[:ss]
.B ] ] [
.I interval
.B [
.I count
.B ] ]
.\"O .SH DESCRIPTION
.SH 説明
.\"O The
.\"O .B sar
.\"O command writes to standard output the contents of selected
.\"O cumulative activity counters in the operating system. The accounting
.\"O system, based on the values in the
.\"O .I count
.\"O and
.\"O .I interval
.\"O parameters, writes information the specified number of times spaced
.\"O at the specified intervals in seconds.
.B sar
コマンドは、オペレーティングシステムの選択された
累積活性度カウンターの内容を、標準出力に書き出す。
この統計システムは
.I count
と
.I interval
パラメータの値に基づいて、指定された回数と間隔の秒数で情報を書き出す。
.\"O If the
.\"O .I interval
.\"O parameter is set to zero, the
.\"O .B sar
.\"O command displays the average statistics for the time
.\"O since the system was started. If the
.\"O .I interval
.\"O parameter is specified without the
.\"O .I count
.\"O parameter, then reports are generated continuously.
.I interval
パラメータが 0 の場合、
.B sar
はシステムが開始されてからの平均の統計値を表示する。
.I count
パラメータを指定することなく、
.I interval
パラメータが指定されると、レポートが連続して生成される。
.\"O The collected data can also
.\"O be saved in the file specified by the -o
.\"O .I filename
.\"O flag, in addition to being displayed onto the screen. If
.\"O .I filename
.\"O is omitted,
.\"O .B sar
.\"O uses the standard system activity daily data file (see below).
収集したデータは、画面に表示するとともに、-o
.I filename
フラグで指定したファイルに保存できる。
.I filename
が省略された場合、
.B sar
は標準システム活性度日次データファイル
(standard system activity daily data file) (下記参照) が使われる。
.\"O By default all the data available from the kernel are saved in the
.\"O data file.
デフォルトでは、カーネルから入手できるすべてのデータが、
データファイルに保存される。

.\"O The
.\"O .B sar
.\"O command extracts and writes to standard output records previously
.\"O saved in a file. This file can be either the one specified by the
.\"O -f flag or, by default, the standard system activity daily data file.
.B sar
コマンドは以前に保存したファイルからデータを抽出して、
レコードを標準出力に書き出す。
このファイルは、-f フラグで指定することができる。
デフォルトでは、標準システム活性度日次データファイルが使われる。
.\"O It is also possible to enter -1, -2 etc. as an argument to
.\"O .B sar
.\"O to display data
.\"O of that days ago. For example, -1 will point at the standard system
.\"O activity file of yesterday.
.B sar
の引数として、何日か前のデータを表示するために、-1, -2 などを指定することもできる。
例えば、-1 は昨日の標準システム活性度日次データファイルを指している。

.\"O Standard system activity daily data files are named
.\"O .I saDD
.\"O or
.\"O .IR saYYYYMMDD ,
.\"O where YYYY stands for the current year, MM for the current month and
.\"O DD for the current day. They are the default files used by
.\"O .B sar
.\"O only when no filename has been explicitly specified.
標準システム活性度日次データファイルは、
.I saDD
または
.I saYYYYMMDD
という名前である。
ここで、YYYY は現在の年、MM は月、DD は日である。
これらは、ファイル名が明示的に指定されない場合に、
.B sar
がデフォルトで使うファイルである。
.\"O When used to write data to files (with its option -o),
.\"O .B sar
.\"O will use
.\"O .I saYYYYMMDD
.\"O if option -D has also been specified, else it will use
.\"O .IR saDD .
(オプション -o で) データをファイルに書き出す場合、
オプション -D も指定されていると、
.B sar
は
.I saYYYYMMDD
を使う。
オプション -D が指定されていない場合、
.I saDD
を使う。
.\"O When used to display the records previously saved in a file,
.\"O .B sar
.\"O will look for the most recent of
.\"O .I saDD
.\"O and
.\"O .IR saYYYYMMDD ,
.\"O and use it.
以前にファイルに保存されたレコードを表示する場合、
.B sar
は
.I saDD
と
.I saYYYYMMDD
のうち最も最近のファイルを探して使う。

.\"O Standard system activity daily data files are located in the
.\"O .I /var/log/sa
.\"O directory by default. Yet it is possible to specify an alternate
.\"O location for them: If a directory (instead of a plain file) is used
.\"O with options -f or -o
.\"O then it will be considered as the directory containing the data files.
標準システム活性度日次データファイルは、デフォルトでは
.I /var/log/sa
ディレクトリにある。
ファイルの場所は別のディレクトリを指定することもできる。
(プレーンファイルではなく) ディレクトリが
オプション -f または -o に指定されると、
データファイルを保持するディレクトリとして扱われる。

.\"O Without the -P flag, the
.\"O .B sar
.\"O command reports system-wide (global among all processors) statistics,
.\"O which are calculated as averages for values expressed as percentages,
.\"O and as sums otherwise. If the -P
.\"O flag is given, the
.\"O .B sar
.\"O command reports activity which relates to the specified processor or
.\"O processors. If -P ALL
.\"O is given, the
.\"O .B sar
.\"O command reports statistics for each individual processor and global
.\"O statistics among all processors. Offline processors are not displayed.
-P フラグが指定されない場合、
.B sar
コマンドはシステム全体
(すべてのプロセッサのグローバル) の統計を表示する。
この統計は、割合で表される平均値と、合計値が計算される。
-P フラグが指定された場合、
.B sar
コマンドは指定されたプロセッサ (群) の活性度を表示する。
-P ALL が指定された場合、
.B sar
コマンドは、各プロセッサの統計と
すべてのプロセッサのグローバル統計を表示する。
オフラインになってるプロセッサは表示されない。

.\"O You can select information about specific system activities using
.\"O flags. Not specifying any flags selects only CPU activity.
フラグを使って特定のシステム活性度の情報を選択することができる。
フラグを指定しない場合、CPU 活性度のみを選択する。
.\"O Specifying the -A
.\"O flag selects all possible activities.
-A フラグを指定すると全ての活性度が選択される。

.\"O The default version of the
.\"O .B sar
.\"O command (CPU utilization report) might be one of the first facilities
.\"O the user runs to begin system activity investigation, because it
.\"O monitors major system resources. If CPU utilization is near 100 percent
.\"O (user + nice + system), the workload sampled is CPU-bound.
.B sar
コマンドのデフォルトバージョン
(CPU 利用率レポート) は、
システム活性度の調査でユーザが最初に使う機能の 1 つになっている。
なぜなら、CPU 利用率はメジャーなシステムリソースであるためである。
CPU 利用率 (user + nice + system) が 100% に近い場合、
サンプリングした負荷は CPU バウンドである。

.\"O If multiple samples and multiple reports are desired, it is convenient
.\"O to specify an output file for the
.\"O .B sar
.\"O command. 
複数のサンプルで、複数のレポートが必要な場合、
.B sar
コマンドの出力ファイルを使うのが便利である。
.\"O Run the
.\"O .B sar
.\"O command as a background process. The syntax for this is:
.B sar
コマンドをバックグラウンドで実行する場合、書式は以下のとおりである。

.B sar -o datafile interval count >/dev/null 2>&1 &

.\"O All data are captured in binary form and saved to a file (datafile).
すべてのデータがバイナリ形式でキャプチャされ、(datafile) ファイルに保存される。
.\"O The data can then be selectively displayed with the
.\"O .B sar
.\"O command using the -f
.\"O option. Set the
.\"O .I interval
.\"O and
.\"O .I count
.\"O parameters to select
.\"O .I count
.\"O records at
.\"O .I interval
.\"O second intervals. If the
.\"O .I count
.\"O parameter is not set, all the records saved in the
.\"O file will be selected.
データは
.B sar
コマンドで -f オプションを指定して、選択して表示できる。
.I interval
と
.I count
パラメータを設定すると、
.I count
レコード数を
.I interval
秒間隔で選択する。
.I count
パラメータが設定されない場合、
ファイルに保存されたすべてのレコードが選択される。
.\"O Collection of data in this manner is useful to characterize
.\"O system usage over a period of time and determine peak usage hours.
この方法で収集したデータは、指定した期間のシステム利用状況の特徴を見たり、
利用時間のピークを決定したりするのに役立つ。

.\"O Note:	The
.\"O .B sar
.\"O command only reports on local activities.
注意:	
.B sar
コマンドはローカルの活性度のみをレポートする。

.\"O .SH OPTIONS
.SH オプション
.IP -A
.\"O This is equivalent to specifying
.\"O .BR "-bBdFHqSvwWy -I SUM -I ALL -m ALL -n ALL -r ALL -u ALL -P ALL".
これは
.BR "-bBdFHqSvwWy -I SUM -I ALL -m ALL -n ALL -r ALL -u ALL -P ALL"
を指定するのと同じである。
.IP -B
.\"O Report paging statistics.
.\"O The following values are displayed:
ページングの統計を表示する。
以下の値が表示される。

.B pgpgin/s
.RS
.RS
.\"O Total number of kilobytes the system paged in from disk per second.
1 秒あたりのディスクからのシステムページインのキロバイト数。
.RE

.B pgpgout/s
.RS
.\"O Total number of kilobytes the system paged out to disk per second.
1 秒あたりのディスクへのシステムページアウトのキロバイト数。
.RE

.B fault/s
.RS
.\"O Number of page faults (major + minor) made by the system per second.
.\"O This is not a count of page faults that generate I/O, because some page
.\"O faults can be resolved without I/O.
1 秒あたりのシステムのページフォールト (メジャー + マイナー) の回数。
これは I/O を生成するページフォールトはカウントしない。
なぜなら同じページフォールトが I/O なしで解決されているためである。
.RE

.B majflt/s
.RS
.\"O Number of major faults the system has made per second, those which
.\"O have required loading a memory page from disk.
1 秒あたりのシステムのメジャーフォールトの回数。
これはディスクからメモリページのロードが必要だった回数である。
.RE

.B pgfree/s
.RS
.\"O Number of pages placed on the free list by the system per second.
1 秒あたりにシステムがフリーリストにおいたページ数。
.RE

.B pgscank/s
.RS
.\"O Number of pages scanned by the kswapd daemon per second.
1 秒あたりの kswapd デーモンにスキャンされたページ数。
.RE

.B pgscand/s
.RS
.\"O Number of pages scanned directly per second.
1 秒あたりの直接スキャンされたページ数。
.RE

.B pgsteal/s
.RS
.\"O Number of pages the system has reclaimed from cache (pagecache and
.\"O swapcache) per second to satisfy its memory demands.
メモリ要求を満たすため、1秒あたりにシステムがキャッシュ
(ページキャッシュとスワップキャッシュ) に再要求したページ数。
.RE

.B %vmeff
.RS
.\"O Calculated as pgsteal / pgscan, this is a metric of the efficiency of
.\"O page reclaim. If it is near 100% then almost every page coming off the
.\"O tail of the inactive list is being reaped. If it gets too low (e.g. less
.\"O than 30%) then the virtual memory is having some difficulty.
.\"O This field is displayed as zero if no pages have been scanned during the
.\"O interval of time.
pgsteal / pgscan で計算される。
これはページ再要求の効率の指標である。
これが 100% に近い場合、ほとんどすべてのページが、使用される非活性リストの末尾に入る。
これが低すぎる (例えば、30% 以下の) 場合、仮想メモリに何らかの問題がある。
計測間隔内にスキャンされたページがない場合、このフィールドは 0 として表示される。
.RE
.RE
.IP -b
.\"O Report I/O and transfer rate statistics.
.\"O The following values are displayed:
I/O と転送率の統計をレポートする。
以下の値が表示される。

.B tps
.RS
.RS
.\"O Total number of transfers per second that were issued to physical devices.
.\"O A transfer is an I/O request to a physical device. Multiple logical
.\"O requests can be combined into a single I/O request to the device.
.\"O A transfer is of indeterminate size.
1 秒あたりに物理デバイスに発行される転送回数。
転送は物理デバイスへの I/O リクエストである。
複数の論理リクエストがデバイスへの 1 回の I/O リクエストにまとめられる場合もある。
転送サイズは不定である。
.RE

.B rtps
.RS
.\"O Total number of read requests per second issued to physical devices.
1 秒あたりの物理デバイスからの読み込みリクエスト数。
.RE

.B wtps
.RS
.\"O Total number of write requests per second issued to physical devices.
1 秒あたりの物理デバイスへの書き込みリクエスト数。
.RE

.B bread/s
.RS
.\"O Total amount of data read from the devices in blocks per second.
.\"O Blocks are equivalent to sectors
.\"O and therefore have a size of 512 bytes.
1 秒あたりのデバイスからの読み込みデータ量 (ブロック数)。
ブロックはセクターと等価で、サイズは 512 バイトである。
.RE

.B bwrtn/s
.RS
.\"O Total amount of data written to devices in blocks per second.
1 秒あたりのデバイスへの書き込みデータ量 (ブロック数)。
.RE
.RE
.IP -C
.\"O When reading data from a file, tell
.\"O .B sar
.\"O to display comments that have been inserted by
.\"O .BR sadc .
データをファイルから読み込む際に、
.B sadc
が挿入したコメントを
.B sar
が表示する。
.IP -D
.\"O Use
.\"O .I saYYYYMMDD
.\"O instead of
.\"O .I saDD
.\"O as the standard system activity daily data file name. This option
.\"O works only when used in conjunction with option -o
.\"O to save data to file.
標準システム活性度日次データファイルとして、
.I saDD
の代わりに
.I saYYYYMMDD
を使う。
このオプションは、オプション -o と組み合わせて
データをファイルに保存する際にのみ、有効である。
.IP -d
.\"O Report activity for each block device.
.\"O When data are displayed, the device specification
.\"O .I devM-n
.\"O is generally used (DEV column).
ブロックデバイスの活性度をレポートする。
データを表示する際、デバイスを示す (DEV 列として)
.I devM-n
が一般的に使われる。
.\"O M is the major number of the device and n
.\"O its minor number.
M がデバイスのメジャー番号、n がマイナー番号である。
.\"O Device names may also be pretty-printed if option -p
.\"O is used or persistent device names can be printed if option -j is used
.\"O (see below). Statistics for all devices are displayed unless
.\"O a restricted list is specified using option
.\"O .BR --dev=
.\"O (see corresponding option entry).
デバイス名は、オプション -p を付けて (/dev 以下の名前で) 小綺麗に表示したり、
オプション -j を付けて永続的なデバイス名で表示することもできる (下記を参照)。
オプション
.B --dev=
を使ってリストを制限しない限り、
すべてのデバイスの統計が表示される (対応するオプションを参照)。
.\"O Note that disk activity depends on
.\"O .B sadc
.\"O options 
.\"O .B "-S DISK"
.\"O and
.\"O .B "-S XDISK"
.\"O to be collected. The following values are displayed:
ディスクの活性度は
.B sadc
がオプション
options 
.B "-S DISK"
と
.B "-S XDISK"
のいずれで収集したかに依存する。
以下の値が表示される。

.B tps
.RS
.RS
.\"O Total number of transfers per second that were issued to physical devices.
.\"O A transfer is an I/O request to a physical device. Multiple logical
.\"O requests can be combined into a single I/O request to the device.
.\"O A transfer is of indeterminate size.
1 秒あたりに物理デバイスに発行される転送回数。
転送は物理デバイスへの I/O リクエストである。
複数の論理リクエストがデバイスへの 1 回の I/O リクエストにまとめられる場合もある。
転送サイズは不定である。
.RE

.B rkB/s
.RS
.\"O Number of kilobytes read from the device per second.
1 秒あたりにデバイスから読み込んだキロバイト数。
.RE

.B wkB/s
.RS
.\"O Number of kilobytes written to the device per second.
1 秒あたりにデバイスに書き込んだキロバイト数。
.RE

.B areq-sz
.RS
.\"O The average size (in kilobytes) of the I/O requests that were issued to the device.
デバイスに発行した I/O リクエストの平均サイズ (キロバイト)。
.br
.\"O Note: In previous versions, this field was known as avgrq-sz and was expressed in sectors.
以前のバージョンでは、このフィールドは avgrq-sz であり、セクタ数を表していた。
.RE

.B aqu-sz
.RS
.\"O The average queue length of the requests that were issued to the device.
デバイスに発行したリクエストの平均のキューの長さ。
.br
.\"O Note: In previous versions, this field was known as avgqu-sz.
以前のバージョンでは、このフィールドは avgqu-sz であった。
.RE

.B await
.RS
.\"O The average time (in milliseconds) for I/O requests issued to the device
.\"O to be served. This includes the time spent by the requests in queue and
.\"O the time spent servicing them.
デバイスに発行した I/O リクエストが処理されるまでの平均時間 (ミリ秒)。
この時間には、リクエストがキューに入っている時間と、処理される時間が含まれる。
.RE

.B svctm
.RS
.\"O The average service time (in milliseconds) for I/O requests that were issued
.\"O to the device. Warning! Do not trust this field any more. This field will be
.\"O removed in a future sysstat version.
デバイスに発行した I/O リクエストに対する平均サービス時間 (ミリ秒)。
注意！このフィールドを今後信用してはならない。
このフィールドは将来の sysstat バージョンで削除される。
.RE

.B %util
.RS
.\"O Percentage of elapsed time during which I/O requests were issued to the device
.\"O (bandwidth utilization for the device). Device saturation occurs when this
.\"O value is close to 100% for devices serving requests serially. But for
.\"O devices serving requests in parallel, such as RAID arrays and modern SSDs,
.\"O this number does not reflect their performance limits.
デバイスに I/O リクエストが発行される経過時間の割合 (デバイスのバンド幅使用率)。
リクエストに対してデバイスがシリアルにサービスする場合、
この値が 100% に近いとデバイスの飽和が起こっている。
RAID アレイや最近の SSD のように、リクエストに対してデバイスがパラレルにサービスする場合、
この値は性能限界を反映しない。
.RE
.RE
.IP "--dec={ 0 | 1 | 2 }"
.\"O Specify the number of decimal places to use (0 to 2, default value is 2).
使用する小数点の位置を指定する (0 から 2 で、デフォルトは 2 である)。
.IP --dev=dev_list
.\"O Specify the block devices for which statistics are to be displayed by
.\"O .BR sar .
.B sar
が統計を表示するデバイスブロックを指定する。
.\"O .IR dev_list
.\"O is a list of comma-separated device names.
.I dev_list
はカンマ区切りのデバイス名のリストである。
.IP "-e [ hh:mm[:ss] ]"
.\"O Set the ending time of the report. The default ending time is
.\"O 18:00:00. Hours must be given in 24-hour format.
.\"O This option can be used when data are read from
.\"O or written to a file (options -f or -o).
レポートの終了時間を設定する。
デフォルトの終了時間は 18:00:00 である。
時は 24 時間制で指定しなければならない。
このオプションはデータの読み書き時 (オプション -f または -o) に使われる。
.IP "-F [ MOUNT ]"
.\"O Display statistics for currently mounted filesystems. Pseudo-filesystems are
.\"O ignored. At the end of the report,
.\"O .B sar
.\"O will display a summary of all those filesystems.
現在マウントしているファイルシステムの統計を表示する。
擬似 (pseudo) ファイルシステムは無視される。
レポートの最後に
.B sar
はこれらのファイルシステムのサマリーを表示する。
.\"O Use of the
.\"O .B MOUNT
.\"O parameter keyword indicates that mountpoint will be reported instead of
.\"O filesystem device. Statistics for all filesystems are displayed unless
.\"O a restricted list is specified using option
.\"O .BR --fs=
.\"O (see corresponding option entry).
.B MOUNT
パラメータキーワードを使うと、ファイルシステムデバイスではなく、
マウントポイントがレポートされる。
.B --fs=
オプションで制限リストを指定しない限り、
すべてのファイルシステムの統計が表示される (対応するオプションを参照すること)。
.\"O Note that filesystems statistics depend on
.\"O .B sadc
.\"O option
.\"O .B "-S XDISK"
.\"O to be collected.
ファイルシステムの統計は、
.B sadc
のオプション
.B "-S XDISK"
で収集される点に注意すること。

.\"O The following values are displayed:
以下の値が表示される。

.B MBfsfree
.RS
.RS
.\"O Total amount of free space in megabytes (including space available only to privileged user).
(特権ユーザのみが使える領域を含む) 空きスペースの総容量 (メガバイト)。
.RE

.B MBfsused
.RS
.\"O Total amount of space used in megabytes.
使用スペースの総容量 (メガバイト)。
.RE

.B %fsused
.RS
.\"O Percentage of filesystem space used, as seen by a privileged user.
特権ユーザから見えるファイルシステム使用率。
.RE

.B %ufsused
.RS
.\"O Percentage of filesystem space used, as seen by an unprivileged user.
非特権ユーザから見えるファイルシステム使用率。
.RE

.B Ifree
.RS
.\"O Total number of free file nodes in filesystem.
ファイルシステムの空きファイルノード数。
.RE

.B Iused
.RS
.\"O Total number of file nodes used in filesystem.
ファイルシステムの使用ファイルノード数。
.RE

.B %Iused
.RS
.\"O Percentage of file nodes used in filesystem.
ファイルシステムの使用ファイルノード率。
.RE
.RE
.IP "-f [ filename ]"
.\"O Extract records from
.\"O .I filename
.\"O (created by the -o
.\"O .I filename
.\"O flag). The default value of the
.\"O .I filename
.\"O parameter is the current standard system activity daily data file.
(-o
.I filename
フラグで作成された)
.I filename
からレコードを抽出する。
.I filename
のデフォルトの値は、
現在の標準システム活性度日次データファイルである。

.\"O If
.\"O .I filename
.\"O is a directory instead of a plain file then it is considered as the
.\"O directory where the standard system activity daily data files are
.\"O located. The -f option is exclusive of the -o option.
.I filename
がプレーンファイルではなく、ディレクトリの場合、
標準システム活性度日次データファイルが置かれたディレクトリと解釈される。
-f オプションと -o オプションは同時に指定することはできない。
.IP --fs=fs_list
.\"O Specify the filesystems for which statistics are to be displayed by
.\"O .BR sar .
.B sar
が統計を表示するファイルシステムを指定する。
.\"O .IR fs_list
.\"O is a list of comma-separated filesystem names or mountpoints.
.I fs_list
はカンマ区切りのファイルシステム名、
またはマウントポイントのリストである。
.IP -H
.\"O Report hugepages utilization statistics.
.\"O The following values are displayed:
ヒュージページ (hugepage) の利用統計を表示する。
以下の値が表示される。

.B kbhugfree
.RS
.RS
.\"O Amount of hugepages memory in kilobytes that is not yet allocated.
まだ確保 (allocate) されてないヒュージページメモリ量 (キロバイト)。
.RE

.B kbhugused
.RS
.\"O Amount of hugepages memory in kilobytes that has been allocated.
確保されたヒュージページメモリ量 (キロバイト)。
.RE

.B %hugused
.RS
.\"O Percentage of total hugepages memory that has been allocated.
確保されたヒュージページメモリの割合。
.RE
.RE
.IP -h
.\"O Make the output of sar easier to read by a human. Options
.\"O .B --human
.\"O and
.\"O .B -p
.\"O (pretty-print) are enabled implicitly with this option.
sar の出力を人間が読みやすいようにする。
このオプションは、
.B --human
と
.B -p
(pretty-print: 小綺麗に表示) オプションを暗黙裡に有効にする。
.\"O This option may be especially useful when displaying e.g., network interfaces
.\"O or block devices statistics.
このオプションは、例えばネットワークインタフェースや
ブロックデバイスの統計を表示する際に、特に役立つだろう。
.IP --help
.\"O Display a short help message then exit.
短いヘルプメッセージを表示して、終了する。
.IP --human
.\"O Print sizes in human readable format (e.g. 1.0k, 1.2M, etc.)
.\"O The units displayed with this option supersede any other default units (e.g.
.\"O kilobytes, sectors...) associated with the metrics.
サイズを人間が読みやすいフォーマット (例えば 1.0k, 1.2M など) で表示する。
このオプションで表示される単位は、指標に紐付けられたデフォルトの単位
(例えば、キロバイト、セクターなど) を上書きする。
.IP "-I { int_list | SUM | ALL }"
.\"O Report statistics for interrupts.
割り込みの統計をレポートする。
.\"O .I int_list
.\"O is a list of comma-separated values or range of values (e.g.,
.\"O .BR 0-16,35,400- ).
.I int_list
はカンマで区切られた値、または範囲の値である
(例えば、
.BR 0-16,35,400- )。
.\"O The
.\"O .B SUM
.\"O keyword indicates that the total number of interrupts received per second
.\"O is to be displayed. The
.\"O .B ALL
.\"O keyword indicates that statistics from all interrupts, including potential
.\"O APIC interrupt sources, are to be reported.
.B SUM
キーワードを指定すると、1 秒あたりに受けた割り込みの総数を表示する。
.B ALL
キーワードを指定すると、潜在的な APIC 割り込みソースを含む、
すべての割り込みの統計を表示する。
.\"O Note that interrupt statistics depend on
.\"O .B sadc
.\"O option "-S INT"
.\"O to be collected.
割り込みの統計は、
.B sadc
のオプション "-S INT" に依存して収集される点に注意すること。
.IP "-i interval"
.\"O Select data records at seconds as close as possible to the number specified
.\"O by the
.\"O .I interval
.\"O parameter.
可能な限り
.I interval
パラメータで指定した秒数に近い時間でデータレコードを選択する。
.IP --iface=iface_list
.\"O Specify the network interfaces for which statistics are to be displayed by
.\"O .BR sar .
.B sar
で統計を表示するネットワークインタフェースを指定する。
.\"O .IR iface_list
.\"O is a list of comma-separated interface names.
.IR iface_list
はカンマ区切りのインタフェース名である。
.IP "-j { ID | LABEL | PATH | UUID | ... }"
.\"O Display persistent device names. Use this option in conjunction with option -d.
永続的なデバイス名を表示する。
このオプションは、-d オプションと組み合わせて使うこと。
.\"O Options
.\"O .BR ID ,
.\"O .BR LABEL ,
.\"O etc. specify the type of the persistent name. These options are not limited,
.\"O only prerequisite is that directory with required persistent names is present in
.\"O .IR /dev/disk .
オプション
.BR ID ,
.B LABEL
などで、永続的なデバイス名のタイプを指定する。
このオプションは限定的ではなく、唯一の必須条件は
.I /dev/disk
のディレクトリに永続的なデバイス名が存在することである。
.\"O If persistent name is not found for the device, the device name
.\"O is pretty-printed (see option -p below).
永続的なデバイス名が存在しない場合、デバイス名は小綺麗に表示される
(下記の -p オプションを参照すること)。
.IP "-m { keyword [,...] | ALL }"
.\"O Report power management statistics.
.\"O Note that these statistics depend on
.\"O .BR sadc 's
.\"O option "-S POWER" to be collected.
パワーマネージメント統計をレポートする。
この統計は
.B sadc
のオプション "-S POWER" に依存して収集される点に注意すること。

.\"O Possible keywords are
指定可能なキーワードは以下のとおり。
.BR CPU ,
.BR FAN ,
.BR FREQ ,
.BR IN ,
.\"O .BR TEMP
.\"O and
.BR TEMP ,
.BR USB .

.\"O With the
.\"O .B CPU
.\"O keyword, statistics about CPU are reported.
.\"O The following value is displayed:
.B CPU
キーワードを指定すると、CPU についての統計がレポートされる。
以下の値が表示される。

.B MHz
.RS
.RS
.\"O Instantaneous CPU clock frequency in MHz.
瞬間的な CPU 周波数 (MHz)
.RE

.\"O With the
.\"O .B FAN
.\"O keyword, statistics about fans speed are reported.
.\"O The following values are displayed:
.B FAN
キーワードを指定すると、ファンのスピードの統計がレポートされる。
以下の値が表示される。

.B rpm
.RS
.\"O Fan speed expressed in revolutions per minute.
ファンのスピード (1 分あたりの回転数)
.RE

.B drpm
.RS
.\"O This field is calculated as the difference between current fan speed (rpm)
.\"O and its low limit (fan_min).
このフィールドは、現在のファンのスピード (rpm) と下限値 (fan_min) との差分で計算される。
.RE

.B DEVICE
.RS
.\"O Sensor device name.
センサーデバイス名
.RE

.\"O With the
.\"O .B FREQ
.\"O keyword, statistics about CPU clock frequency are reported.
.\"O The following value is displayed:
.B FREQ
キーワードを指定すると、CPU クロック周波数の統計がレポートされる。
以下の値が表示される。

.B wghMHz
.RS
.\"O Weighted average CPU clock frequency in MHz.
.\"O Note that the cpufreq-stats driver must be compiled in the
.\"O kernel for this option to work.
加重平均 CPU クロック周波数 (MHz)。
このオプションを使うためには、cpufreq-stats ドライバーが
カーネルにコンパイルされていなければならない点に注意すること。
.RE

.\"O With the
.\"O .B IN
.\"O keyword, statistics about voltage inputs are reported.
.\"O The following values are displayed:
.B IN
キーワードを指定すると、電圧入力の統計がレポートされる。
以下の値が表示される。

.B inV
.RS
.\"O Voltage input expressed in Volts.
電圧入力をボルトで表示する。
.RE

.B %in
.RS
.\"O Relative input value. A value of 100% means that
.\"O voltage input has reached its high limit (in_max) whereas
.\"O a value of 0% means that it has reached its low limit (in_min).
相対的な入力値。
100% は上限値 (in_max) に到達していることを意味し、
0% は下限値 (in_min) に到達していることを意味する。
.RE

.B DEVICE
.RS
.\"O Sensor device name.
センサーデバイス名
.RE

.\"O With the
.\"O .B TEMP
.\"O keyword, statistics about devices temperature are reported.
.\"O The following values are displayed:
.B TEMP
キーワードを指定すると、デバイスの温度の統計がレポートされる。
以下の値が表示される。

.B degC
.RS
.\"O Device temperature expressed in degrees Celsius.
デバイスの温度を摂氏で表示する。
.RE

.B %temp
.RS
.\"O Relative device temperature. A value of 100% means that
.\"O temperature has reached its high limit (temp_max).
相対的なデバイスの温度。
100% は上限値 (temp_max) に到達していることを意味する。
.RE

.B DEVICE
.RS
.\"O Sensor device name.
センサーデバイス名
.RE

.\"O With the
.\"O .B USB
.\"O keyword, the
.\"O .B sar
.\"O command takes a snapshot of all the USB devices currently plugged into
.\"O the system. At the end of the report,
.\"O .B sar
.\"O will display a summary of all those USB devices.
.\"O The following values are displayed:
.B USB
キーワードを指定すると、
.B sar
コマンドは現在システムにつながれてるすべての USB デバイスのスナップショットを取る。
レポートの最後に、
.B sar
はすべての USB デバイスのサマリーを表示する。
以下の値が表示される。

.B BUS
.RS
.\"O Root hub number of the USB device.
USB デバイスのルートハブ番号
.RE

.B idvendor
.RS
.\"O Vendor ID number (assigned by USB organization).
(USB 組織がアサインする) ベンダー ID 番号。
.RE

.B idprod
.RS
.\"O Product ID number (assigned by Manufacturer).
(製造者がアサインする) 製品 ID 番号。
.RE

.B maxpower
.RS
.\"O Maximum power consumption of the device (expressed in mA).
デバイスの最大電力消費 (mA)。
.RE

.B manufact
.RS
.\"O Manufacturer name.
製造社名
.RE

.B product
.RS
.\"O Product name.
製品名
.RE

.\"O The
.\"O .B ALL
.\"O keyword is equivalent to specifying all the keywords above and therefore all the power
.\"O management statistics are reported.
.B ALL
キーワードは、上記のすべてのキーワードを指定したのと同じであり、
すべてのパワーマネージメント統計が表示される。
.RE
.RE
.IP "-n { keyword [,...] | ALL }"
.\"O Report network statistics.
ネットワークの統計をレポートする。

.\"O Possible keywords are
指定可能なキーワードは以下のとおり。
.BR DEV ,
.BR EDEV ,
.BR FC ,
.BR ICMP ,
.BR EICMP ,
.BR ICMP6 ,
.BR EICMP6 ,
.BR IP ,
.BR EIP ,
.BR IP6 ,
.BR EIP6 ,
.BR NFS ,
.BR NFSD ,
.BR SOCK ,
.BR SOCK6 ,
.BR SOFT ,
.BR TCP ,
.BR ETCP ,
.\"O .BR UDP
.BR UDP ,
.\"O and
.BR UDP6 .

.\"O With the
.\"O .B DEV
.\"O keyword, statistics from the network devices are reported.
.B DEV
キーワードを指定すると、ネットワークデバイスの統計をレポートする。
.\"O Statistics for all network interfaces are displayed unless
.\"O a restricted list is specified using option
.\"O .BR --iface=
.\"O (see corresponding option entry).
オプション
.B --iface=
を使ってリストを制限しない限り、すべてのネットワークインタフェースの
統計が表示される (対応するオプションを参照)。
.\"O The following values are displayed:
以下の値が表示される。

.B IFACE
.RS
.RS
.\"O Name of the network interface for which statistics are reported.
統計をレポートするネットワークインタフェースの名前。
.RE

.B rxpck/s
.RS
.\"O Total number of packets received per second.
1 秒あたりの受信パケット数。
.RE

.B txpck/s
.RS
.\"O Total number of packets transmitted per second.
1 秒あたりの送信パケット数。
.RE

.B rxkB/s
.RS
.\"O Total number of kilobytes received per second.
1 秒あたりの受信キロバイト数。
.RE

.B txkB/s
.RS
.\"O Total number of kilobytes transmitted per second.
1 秒あたりの送信キロバイト数。
.RE

.B rxcmp/s
.RS
.\"O Number of compressed packets received per second (for cslip etc.).
1 秒あたりの受信圧縮パケット数 (cslip など)。
.RE

.B txcmp/s
.RS
.\"O Number of compressed packets transmitted per second.
1 秒あたりの送信圧縮パケット数。
.RE

.B rxmcst/s
.RS
.\"O Number of multicast packets received per second.
1 秒あたりの受信マルチキャストパケット数。
.RE

.B %ifutil
.RS
.\"O Utilization percentage of the network interface. For half-duplex interfaces,
.\"O utilization is calculated using the sum of rxkB/s and txkB/s as a percentage
.\"O of the interface speed. For full-duplex, this is the greater of rxkB/S or txkB/s.
ネットワークインタフェースの利用率。
半二重インタフェースの場合の利用率は、rxkB/s と txkB/s の合計が
インタフェーススピードに占める割合を計算する。
全二重インタフェースの場合は、rxkB/s と txkB/s のうちの大きい方が占める割合を計算する。
.RE

.\"O With the
.\"O .B EDEV
.\"O keyword, statistics on failures (errors) from the network devices are reported.
.B EDEV
キーワードを指定すると、ネットワークデバイスの失敗 (エラー) の統計をレポートする。
.\"O Statistics for all network interfaces are displayed unless
.\"O a restricted list is specified using option
.\"O .BR --iface=
.\"O (see corresponding option entry).
オプション
.B --iface=
を使ってリストを制限しない限り、すべてのネットワークインタフェースの
統計が表示される (対応するオプションを参照)。
.\"O The following values are displayed:
以下の値が表示される。


.B IFACE
.RS
.\"O Name of the network interface for which statistics are reported.
統計をレポートするネットワークインタフェースの名前。
.RE

.B rxerr/s
.RS
.\"O Total number of bad packets received per second.
1 秒あたりの受信不良パケット数。
.RE

.B txerr/s
.RS
.\"O Total number of errors that happened per second while transmitting packets.
1 秒あたりの送信エラーが起きたパケット数。
.RE

.B coll/s
.RS
.\"O Number of collisions that happened per second while transmitting packets.
1 秒あたりの送信衝突 (collision) が起きたパケット数。
.RE

.B rxdrop/s
.RS
.\"O Number of received packets dropped per second because of a lack of space in linux buffers.
1 秒あたりのドロップされた受信パケット数。Linux のバッファに空きがない場合に起こる。
.RE

.B txdrop/s
.RS
.\"O Number of transmitted packets dropped per second because of a lack of space in linux buffers.
1 秒あたりのドロップされた送信パケット数。Linux のバッファに空きがない場合に起こる。
.RE

.B txcarr/s
.RS
.\"O Number of carrier-errors that happened per second while transmitting packets.
1 秒あたりのキャリアエラーが起きた送信パケット数。
.RE

.B rxfram/s
.RS
.\"O Number of frame alignment errors that happened per second on received packets.
1 秒あたりのフレームアライメントエラーが起きた受信パケット数。
.RE

.B rxfifo/s
.RS
.\"O Number of FIFO overrun errors that happened per second on received packets.
1 秒あたりの FIFO オーバーランエラーが起きた受信パケット数。
.RE

.B txfifo/s
.RS
.\"O Number of FIFO overrun errors that happened per second on transmitted packets.
1 秒あたりの FIFO オーバーランエラーが起きた送信パケット数。
.RE

.\"O With the
.\"O .B FC
.\"O keyword, statistics about fibre channel traffic are reported.
.B FC
キーワードを指定すると、ファイバーチャネルの
トラフィックの統計をレポートする。
.\"O Note that fibre channel statistics depend on
.\"O .BR sadc 's
.\"O option "-S DISK" to be collected.
ファイバーチャネルの統計は、
.B sadc
のオプション "-S DISK" に依存して収集される点に注意すること。
.\"O The following values are displayed:
以下の値が表示される。

.B FCHOST
.RS
.\"O Name of the fibre channel host bus adapter (HBA) interface for which statistics are reported.
統計をレポートするファイバーチャネルホストバスアダプタ (HBA) のインタフェース名。
.RE

.B fch_rxf/s
.RS
.\"O The total number of frames received per second.
1 秒あたりの受信フレーム数。
.RE

.B fch_txf/s
.RS
.\"O The total number of frames transmitted per second.
1 秒あたりの送信フレーム数。
.RE

.B fch_rxw/s
.RS
.\"O The total number of transmission words received per second.
1 秒あたりの受信伝送 (transmission) ワード数。
.RE

.B fch_txw/s
.RS
.\"O The total number of transmission words transmitted per second.
1 秒あたりの送信伝送ワード数。
.RE

.\"O With the
.\"O .B ICMP
.\"O keyword, statistics about ICMPv4 network traffic are reported.
.B ICMP
キーワードを指定すると、ICMPv4 ネットワークトラフィックの統計をレポートする。
.\"O Note that ICMPv4 statistics depend on
.\"O .BR sadc 's
.\"O option "-S SNMP"
.\"O to be collected.
ICMPv4 の統計は
.B sadc
のオプション "-S SNMP" に依存して収集される点に注意すること。
.\"O The following values are displayed (formal SNMP names between
.\"O square brackets):
以下の値が表示される (正式な SNMP 名を角括弧内に記載する)。

.B imsg/s
.RS
.\"O The total number of ICMP messages which the entity
.\"O received per second [icmpInMsgs].
.\"O Note that this counter includes all those counted by ierr/s.
1 秒あたりにエンティティが受信した ICMP 通知の数 [icmpInMsgs]。
このカウンタは、ierr/s の全てのカウントを含む点に注意すること。
.RE

.B omsg/s
.RS
.\"O The total number of ICMP messages which this entity
.\"O attempted to send per second [icmpOutMsgs].
.\"O Note that this counter includes all those counted by oerr/s.
1 秒あたりにエンティティが送信しようとした ICMP 通知の数 [icmpOutMsgs]。
このカウンタは、oerr/s の全てのカウントを含む点に注意すること。
.RE

.B iech/s
.RS
.\"O The number of ICMP Echo (request) messages received per second [icmpInEchos].
1 秒あたりに受信した ICMP エコー要求通知の数 [icmpInEchos]。
.RE

.B iechr/s
.RS
.\"O The number of ICMP Echo Reply messages received per second [icmpInEchoReps].
1 秒あたりに受信した ICMP エコー応答通知の数 [icmpInEchoReps]。
.RE

.B oech/s
.RS
.\"O The number of ICMP Echo (request) messages sent per second [icmpOutEchos].
1 秒あたりに送信した ICMP エコー要求通知の数 [icmpOutEchos]。
.RE

.B oechr/s
.RS
.\"O The number of ICMP Echo Reply messages sent per second [icmpOutEchoReps].
1 秒あたりに送信した ICMP エコー応答通知の数 [icmpOutEchoReps]。
.RE

.B itm/s
.RS
.\"O The number of ICMP Timestamp (request) messages received per second [icmpInTimestamps].
1 秒あたりに受信した ICMP タイムスタンプ要求通知の数 [icmpInTimestamps]。
.RE

.B itmr/s
.RS
.\"O The number of ICMP Timestamp Reply messages received per second [icmpInTimestampReps].
1 秒あたりに受信した ICMP タイムスタンプ応答通知の数 [icmpInTimestampReps]。
.RE

.B otm/s
.RS
.\"O The number of ICMP Timestamp (request) messages sent per second [icmpOutTimestamps].
1 秒あたりに送信した ICMP タイムスタンプ要求通知の数 [icmpOutTimestamps]。
.RE

.B otmr/s
.RS
.\"O The number of ICMP Timestamp Reply messages sent per second [icmpOutTimestampReps].
1 秒あたりに送信した ICMP タイムスタンプ要求通知の数 [icmpOutTimestampReps]。
.RE

.B iadrmk/s
.RS
.\"O The number of ICMP Address Mask Request messages received per second [icmpInAddrMasks].
1 秒あたりに受信した ICMP アドレスマスク要求通知の数 [icmpInAddrMasks]。
.RE

.B iadrmkr/s
.RS
.\"O The number of ICMP Address Mask Reply messages received per second [icmpInAddrMaskReps].
1 秒あたりに受信した ICMP アドレスマスク応答通知の数 [icmpInAddrMaskReps]。
.RE

.B oadrmk/s
.RS
.\"O The number of ICMP Address Mask Request messages sent per second [icmpOutAddrMasks].
1 秒あたりに送信した ICMP アドレスマスク要求通知の数 [icmpOutAddrMasks]。
.RE

.B oadrmkr/s
.RS
.\"O The number of ICMP Address Mask Reply messages sent per second [icmpOutAddrMaskReps].
1 秒あたりに送信した ICMP アドレスマスク応答通知の数 [icmpOutAddrMaskReps]。
.RE

.\"O With the
.\"O .B EICMP
.\"O keyword, statistics about ICMPv4 error messages are reported.
.B EICMP
キーワードを指定すると、ICMPv4 エラー通知の統計がレポートされる。
.\"O Note that ICMPv4 statistics depend on
.\"O .BR  sadc 's
.\"O option "-S SNMP" to be collected.
ICMPv4 の統計は
.B sadc
のオプション "-S SNMP" に依存して収集される点に注意すること。
.\"O The following values are displayed (formal SNMP names between
.\"O square brackets):
以下の値が表示される (正式な SNMP 名を角括弧内に記載する)。

.B ierr/s
.RS
.\"O The number of ICMP messages per second which the entity received but
.\"O determined as having ICMP-specific errors (bad ICMP
.\"O checksums, bad length, etc.) [icmpInErrors].
エンティティが受信したが ICMP 特有のエラー
(ICMP チェックサムの不正、長さの不正、など) があると判断された、
1 秒あたりの ICMP 通知の数 [icmpInErrors]。
.RE

.B oerr/s
.RS
.\"O The number of ICMP messages per second which this entity did not send
.\"O due to problems discovered within ICMP such as a lack of buffers [icmpOutErrors].
バッファの不足などで、ICMP に問題が見つかって
エンティティが送信しなかった、
1 秒あたりの ICMP 通知の数 [icmpOutErrors]。
.RE

.B idstunr/s
.RS
.\"O The number of ICMP Destination Unreachable messages
.\"O received per second [icmpInDestUnreachs].
1 秒あたりに受信した ICMP 宛先到達不可能通知の数 [icmpInDestUnreachs]。
.RE

.B odstunr/s
.RS
.\"O The number of ICMP Destination Unreachable messages sent per second [icmpOutDestUnreachs].
1 秒あたりに送信した ICMP 宛先到達不可能通知の数 [icmpOutDestUnreachs]。
.RE

.B itmex/s
.RS
.\"O The number of ICMP Time Exceeded messages received per second [icmpInTimeExcds].
1 秒あたりに受信した ICMP 時間切れ通知の数 [icmpInTimeExcds]。
.RE

.B otmex/s
.RS
.\"O The number of ICMP Time Exceeded messages sent per second [icmpOutTimeExcds].
1 秒あたりに送信した ICMP 時間切れ通知の数 [icmpOutTimeExcds]。
.RE

.B iparmpb/s
.RS
.\"O The number of ICMP Parameter Problem messages received per second [icmpInParmProbs].
1 秒あたりに受信した ICMP 不正引数通知の数 [icmpInParmProbs]。
.RE

.B oparmpb/s
.RS
.\"O The number of ICMP Parameter Problem messages sent per second [icmpOutParmProbs].
1 秒あたりに送信した ICMP 不正引数通知の数 [icmpOutParmProbs]。
.RE

.B isrcq/s
.RS
.\"O The number of ICMP Source Quench messages received per second [icmpInSrcQuenchs].
1 秒あたりに受信した ICMP 送出抑制要求通知の数 [icmpInSrcQuenchs]。
.RE

.B osrcq/s
.RS
.\"O The number of ICMP Source Quench messages sent per second [icmpOutSrcQuenchs].
1 秒あたりに送信した ICMP 送出抑制要求通知の数 [icmpOutSrcQuenchs]。
.RE

.B iredir/s
.RS
.\"O The number of ICMP Redirect messages received per second [icmpInRedirects].
1 秒あたりに受信した ICMP 経路変更要求通知の数 [icmpInRedirects]。
.RE

.B oredir/s
.RS
.\"O The number of ICMP Redirect messages sent per second [icmpOutRedirects].
1 秒あたりに送信した ICMP 経路変更要求通知の数 [icmpInRedirects]。
.RE

.\"O With the
.\"O .B ICMP6
.\"O keyword, statistics about ICMPv6 network traffic are reported.
.B ICMP6
キーワードを指定すると、ICMPv6 ネットワークトラフィックの統計がレポートされる。
.\"O Note that ICMPv6 statistics depend on
.\"O .BR sadc 's
.\"O option "-S IPV6" to be collected.
ICMPv6 の統計は、
.B sadc
オプション "-S IPV6" に依存して収集される点に注意すること。
.\"O The following values are displayed (formal SNMP names between
.\"O square brackets):
以下の値が表示される (正式な SNMP 名を角括弧内に記載する)。

.B imsg6/s
.RS
.\"O The total number of ICMP messages received
.\"O by the interface per second which includes all those
.\"O counted by ierr6/s [ipv6IfIcmpInMsgs].
1 秒あたりにインタフェースが受信した ICMP 通知の数 [ipv6IfIcmpInMsgs]。
これは ierr6/s のカウントを含む。
.RE

.B omsg6/s
.RS
.\"O The total number of ICMP messages which this
.\"O interface attempted to send per second [ipv6IfIcmpOutMsgs].
1 秒あたりにインタフェースが送信しようとした ICMP 通知の数 [ipv6IfIcmpOutMsgs]。
.RE

.B iech6/s
.RS
.\"O The number of ICMP Echo (request) messages
.\"O received by the interface per second [ipv6IfIcmpInEchos].
1 秒あたりにインタフェースが受信した ICMP エコー要求通知の数 [ipv6IfIcmpInEchos]。
.RE

.B iechr6/s
.RS
.\"O The number of ICMP Echo Reply messages received
.\"O by the interface per second [ipv6IfIcmpInEchoReplies].
1 秒あたりにインタフェースが受信した ICMP エコー応答通知の数 [ipv6IfIcmpInEchoReplies]。
.RE

.B oechr6/s
.RS
.\"O The number of ICMP Echo Reply messages sent
.\"O by the interface per second [ipv6IfIcmpOutEchoReplies].
1 秒あたりにインタフェースが送信した ICMP エコー応答通知の数 [ipv6IfIcmpOutEchoReplies]。
.RE

.B igmbq6/s
.RS
.\"O The number of ICMPv6 Group Membership Query
.\"O messages received by the interface per second
.\"O [ipv6IfIcmpInGroupMembQueries].
1 秒あたりにインタフェースが受信した
ICMPv6 グループメンバーシップ問い合わせ通知の数 [ipv6IfIcmpInGroupMembQueries]。
.RE

.B igmbr6/s
.RS
.\"O The number of ICMPv6 Group Membership Response messages
.\"O received by the interface per second
.\"O [ipv6IfIcmpInGroupMembResponses].
1 秒あたりにインタフェースが受信した
ICMPv6 グループメンバーシップ報告通知の数 [ipv6IfIcmpInGroupMembResponses]。
.RE

.B ogmbr6/s
.RS
.\"O The number of ICMPv6 Group Membership Response
.\"O messages sent per second
.\"O [ipv6IfIcmpOutGroupMembResponses].
1 秒あたりにインタフェースが送信した
ICMPv6 グループメンバーシップ報告通知の数 [ipv6IfIcmpOutGroupMembResponses]。
.RE

.B igmbrd6/s
.RS
.\"O The number of ICMPv6 Group Membership Reduction messages
.\"O received by the interface per second
.\"O [ipv6IfIcmpInGroupMembReductions].
1 秒あたりにインタフェースが受信した
ICMPv6 グループメンバーシップ削除通知の数 [ipv6IfIcmpInGroupMembResponses]。
.RE

.B ogmbrd6/s
.RS
.\"O The number of ICMPv6 Group Membership Reduction
.\"O messages sent per second
.\"O [ipv6IfIcmpOutGroupMembReductions].
1 秒あたりにインタフェースが送信した
ICMPv6 グループメンバーシップ削除通知の数 [ipv6IfIcmpOutGroupMembReductions]。
.RE

.B irtsol6/s
.RS
.\"O The number of ICMP Router Solicit messages
.\"O received by the interface per second
.\"O [ipv6IfIcmpInRouterSolicits].
1 秒あたりにインタフェースが受信した
ICMP ルータ要請通知の数 [ipv6IfIcmpInRouterSolicits]。
.RE

.B ortsol6/s
.RS
.\"O The number of ICMP Router Solicitation messages
.\"O sent by the interface per second
.\"O [ipv6IfIcmpOutRouterSolicits].
1 秒あたりにインタフェースが送信した
ICMP ルータ要請通知の数 [ipv6IfIcmpOutRouterSolicits].。
.RE

.B irtad6/s
.RS
.\"O The number of ICMP Router Advertisement messages
.\"O received by the interface per second
.\"O [ipv6IfIcmpInRouterAdvertisements].
1 秒あたりにインタフェースが受信した
ICMP ルータ広告通知の数 [ipv6IfIcmpInRouterAdvertisements]。
.RE

.B inbsol6/s
.RS
.\"O The number of ICMP Neighbor Solicit messages
.\"O received by the interface per second
.\"O [ipv6IfIcmpInNeighborSolicits].
1 秒あたりにインタフェースが受信した
ICMP 近隣要請通知の数 [ipv6IfIcmpInNeighborSolicits]。
.RE

.B onbsol6/s
.RS
.\"O The number of ICMP Neighbor Solicitation
.\"O messages sent by the interface per second
.\"O [ipv6IfIcmpOutNeighborSolicits].
1 秒あたりにインタフェースが送信した
ICMP 近隣要請通知の数 [ipv6IfIcmpOutNeighborSolicits].。
.RE

.B inbad6/s
.RS
.\"O The number of ICMP Neighbor Advertisement
.\"O messages received by the interface per second
.\"O [ipv6IfIcmpInNeighborAdvertisements].
1 秒あたりにインタフェースが受信した
ICMP 近隣広告通知の数 [ipv6IfIcmpInNeighborAdvertisements]。
.RE

.B onbad6/s
.RS
.\"O The number of ICMP Neighbor Advertisement
.\"O messages sent by the interface per second
.\"O [ipv6IfIcmpOutNeighborAdvertisements].
1 秒あたりにインタフェースが送信した
ICMP 近隣広告通知の数 [ipv6IfIcmpOutNeighborAdvertisements]。
.RE

.\"O With the
.\"O .B EICMP6
.\"O keyword, statistics about ICMPv6 error messages are reported.
.B EICMP6
キーワードを指定すると、ICMPv6 エラーメッセージの統計をレポートする。
.\"O Note that ICMPv6 statistics depend on
.\"O .BR sadc 's
.\"O option "-S IPV6" to be collected.
ICMPv6 の統計は、
.B sadc
オプション "-S IPV6" に依存して収集される点に注意すること。
.\"O The following values are displayed (formal SNMP names between
.\"O square brackets):
以下の値が表示される (正式な SNMP 名を角括弧内に記載する)。

.B ierr6/s
.RS
.\"O The number of ICMP messages per second which the interface
.\"O received but determined as having ICMP-specific
.\"O errors (bad ICMP checksums, bad length, etc.)
.\"O [ipv6IfIcmpInErrors]
エンティティが受信したが ICMP 特有のエラー
(ICMP チェックサムの不正、長さの不正、など) があると判断された、
1 秒あたりの ICMP 通知の数 [ipv6IfIcmpInErrors]。
.RE

.B idtunr6/s
.RS
.\"O The number of ICMP Destination Unreachable
.\"O messages received by the interface per second
.\"O [ipv6IfIcmpInDestUnreachs].
1 秒あたりにインタフェースが受信した
ICMP 宛先到達不可能通知の数 [ipv6IfIcmpInDestUnreachs]。
.RE

.B odtunr6/s
.RS
.\"O The number of ICMP Destination Unreachable
.\"O messages sent by the interface per second
.\"O [ipv6IfIcmpOutDestUnreachs].
1 秒あたりにインタフェースが送信した
ICMP 宛先到達不可能通知の数 [ipv6IfIcmpOutDestUnreachs]。
.RE

.B itmex6/s
.RS
.\"O The number of ICMP Time Exceeded messages
.\"O received by the interface per second
.\"O [ipv6IfIcmpInTimeExcds].
1 秒あたりにインタフェースが受信した
ICMP 時間切れ通知の数 [ipv6IfIcmpInTimeExcds]。
.RE

.B otmex6/s
.RS
.\"O The number of ICMP Time Exceeded messages sent
.\"O by the interface per second
.\"O [ipv6IfIcmpOutTimeExcds].
1 秒あたりにインタフェースが送信した
ICMP 時間切れ通知の数 [ipv6IfIcmpOutTimeExcds]。
.RE

.B iprmpb6/s
.RS
.\"O The number of ICMP Parameter Problem messages
.\"O received by the interface per second
.\"O [ipv6IfIcmpInParmProblems].
1 秒あたりにインタフェースが受信した
ICMP 不正引数通知の数 [ipv6IfIcmpInParmProblems]。
.RE

.B oprmpb6/s
.RS
.\"O The number of ICMP Parameter Problem messages
.\"O sent by the interface per second
.\"O [ipv6IfIcmpOutParmProblems].
1 秒あたりにインタフェースが送信した
ICMP 不正引数通知の数 [ipv6IfIcmpOutParmProblems]。
.RE

.B iredir6/s
.RS
.\"O The number of Redirect messages received
.\"O by the interface per second
.\"O [ipv6IfIcmpInRedirects].
1 秒あたりにインタフェースが受信した
ICMP リダイレクト通知の数 [ipv6IfIcmpInRedirects]。
.RE

.B oredir6/s
.RS
.\"O The number of Redirect messages sent by
.\"O the interface by second
.\"O [ipv6IfIcmpOutRedirects].
1 秒あたりにインタフェースが送信した
ICMP リダイレクト通知の数 [ipv6IfIcmpOutRedirects]。
.RE

.B ipck2b6/s
.RS
.\"O The number of ICMP Packet Too Big messages
.\"O received by the interface per second
.\"O [ipv6IfIcmpInPktTooBigs].
1 秒あたりにインタフェースが受信した
ICMP パケット過大通知の数 [ipv6IfIcmpInPktTooBigs]。
.RE

.B opck2b6/s
.RS
.\"O The number of ICMP Packet Too Big messages sent
.\"O by the interface per second
.\"O [ipv6IfIcmpOutPktTooBigs].
1 秒あたりにインタフェースが送信した
ICMP パケット過大通知の数 [ipv6IfIcmpOutPktTooBigs]。
.RE

.\"O With the
.\"O .B IP
.\"O keyword, statistics about IPv4 network traffic are reported.
.B IP
キーワードを指定すると、IPv4 ネットワークトラフィックの統計がレポートされる。
.\"O Note that IPv4 statistics depend on
.\"O .BR sadc 's
.\"O option "-S SNMP"
.\"O to be collected.
IPv4 の統計は、
.B sadc
のオプション "-S SNMP" に依存して収集される点に注意すること。
.\"O The following values are displayed (formal SNMP names between
.\"O square brackets):
以下の値が表示される (正式な SNMP 名を角括弧内に記載する)。

.B irec/s
.RS
.\"O The total number of input datagrams received from interfaces
.\"O per second, including those received in error [ipInReceives].
1 秒あたりにインタフェースが受信した入力データグラムの数 [ipInReceives]。
これはエラーで受信したデータグラム数も含む。
.RE

.B fwddgm/s
.RS
.\"O The number of input datagrams per second, for which this entity was not
.\"O their final IP destination, as a result of which an attempt
.\"O was made to find a route to forward them to that final
.\"O destination [ipForwDatagrams].
エンティティが最終の IP 宛先ではなく、結果として最終の宛先に転送する経路を探した、
1 秒あたりの入力データグラムの数 [ipForwDatagrams]。
.RE

.B idel/s
.RS
.\"O The total number of input datagrams successfully delivered per second
.\"O to IP user-protocols (including ICMP) [ipInDelivers].
1 秒あたりの (ICMP を含む) IP ユーザプロトコルへの
配送が成功した入力データグラムの数 [ipInDelivers]。
.RE

.B orq/s
.RS
.\"O The total number of IP datagrams which local IP user-protocols (including ICMP)
.\"O supplied per second to IP in requests for transmission [ipOutRequests].
1 秒あたりの (ICMP を含む) ローカル IP ユーザプロトコルへの
伝送が成功した IP データグラムの数 [ipInDelivers]。
.\"O Note that this counter does not include any datagrams counted in fwddgm/s.
このカウンタは、fwddgm/s でカウントされるデータグラムを含まない点に注意すること。
.RE

.B asmrq/s
.RS
.\"O The number of IP fragments received per second which needed to be
.\"O reassembled at this entity [ipReasmReqds].
1 秒あたりに受信したこのエンティティで再構築が必要な IP フラグメントの数 [ipReasmReqds]。
.RE

.B asmok/s
.RS
.\"O The number of IP datagrams successfully re-assembled per second [ipReasmOKs].
1 秒あたりに再構成が成功した IP データグラムの数 [ipReasmOKs]。
.RE

.B fragok/s
.RS
.\"O The number of IP datagrams that have been successfully
.\"O fragmented at this entity per second [ipFragOKs].
1 秒あたりにこのエンティティでフラグメント化に成功した IP データグラムの数 [ipFragOKs]。
.RE

.B fragcrt/s
.RS
.\"O The number of IP datagram fragments that have been
.\"O generated per second as a result of fragmentation at this entity [ipFragCreates].
1 秒あたりにこのエンティティでのフラグメント化により生成された、
IP データグラムフラグメントの数 [ipFragCreates]。
.RE

.\"O With the
.\"O .B EIP
.\"O keyword, statistics about IPv4 network errors are reported.
.B EIP
キーワードを指定すると、IPv4 ネットワークエラーの統計がレポートされる。
.\"O Note that IPv4 statistics depend on
.\"O .BR sadc 's
.\"O option "-S SNMP" to be collected.
IPv4 の統計は、
.B sadc
のオプション "-S SNMP" に依存して収集される点に注意すること。
.\"O The following values are displayed (formal SNMP names between
.\"O square brackets):
以下の値が表示される (正式な SNMP 名を角括弧内に記載する)。

.B ihdrerr/s
.RS
.\"O The number of input datagrams discarded per second due to errors in
.\"O their IP headers, including bad checksums, version number
.\"O mismatch, other format errors, time-to-live exceeded, errors
.\"O discovered in processing their IP options, etc. [ipInHdrErrors]
IP ヘッダのエラーにより、1 秒あたりに破棄された入力データグラムの数。
IP ヘッダのエラーには、不正なチェックサム、
バージョン番号の不一致、その他のフォーマットエラー、
生存時間 (time-to-live) の超過、
IP オプションの処理で見つかったエラーなどが含まれる [ipInHdrErrors]。
.RE

.B iadrerr/s
.RS
.\"O The number of input datagrams discarded per second because the IP
.\"O address in their IP header's destination field was not a
.\"O valid address to be received at this entity. This count
.\"O includes invalid addresses (e.g., 0.0.0.0) and addresses of
.\"O unsupported Classes (e.g., Class E). For entities which are
.\"O not IP routers and therefore do not forward datagrams, this
.\"O counter includes datagrams discarded because the destination
.\"O address was not a local address [ipInAddrErrors].
IP ヘッダの宛先フィールドに書かれた IP アドレスが、
このエンティティが受け取る有効なアドレスでなかったために、
1 秒あたりに破棄された入力データグラムの数。
このカウンタは、無効なアドレス (例: 0.0.0.0) と
サポートされていないクラス (例:クラス E) を含む。
エンティティが IP ルータではなく、データグラムを転送しない場合、
このカウンタは、宛先アドレスがローカルアドレスでないために
破棄されたデータグラムをカウントする [ipInAddrErrors]。
.RE

.B iukwnpr/s
.RS
.\"O The number of locally-addressed datagrams received
.\"O successfully but discarded per second because of an unknown or
.\"O unsupported protocol [ipInUnknownProtos].
1 秒あたりに受信に成功したローカルアドレス宛ての
データグラムのうち、
不明またはサポート外のプロトコルであったために
破棄されたデータグラムの数 [ipInUnknownProtos]。
.RE

.B idisc/s
.RS
.\"O The number of input IP datagrams per second for which no problems were
.\"O encountered to prevent their continued processing, but which
.\"O were discarded (e.g., for lack of buffer space) [ipInDiscards].
後続処理を妨げる問題はなかったが、
(例えば、バッファ領域の不足などで) 破棄された、
1 秒あたりの入力 IP データグラムの数 [ipInDiscards]。
.\"O Note that this counter does not include any datagrams discarded while
.\"O awaiting re-assembly.
このカウンタは、再構築を待っている間に破棄された
データグラムを、カウントしない点に注意すること。
.RE

.B odisc/s
.RS
.\"O The number of output IP datagrams per second for which no problem was
.\"O encountered to prevent their transmission to their
.\"O destination, but which were discarded (e.g., for lack of
.\"O buffer space) [ipOutDiscards].
送信を妨げる問題はなかったが、
(例えば、バッファ領域の不足などで) 破棄された、
1 秒あたり出力 IP データグラムの数 [ipOutDiscards]。
.\"O Note that this counter would include
.\"O datagrams counted in fwddgm/s if any such packets met
.\"O this (discretionary) discard criterion.
このカウンタは、fwddgm/s でカウントされるパケットが、
この (裁量による) 破棄基準にマッチして破棄された場合に、
カウントに含める点に注意すること。
.RE

.B onort/s
.RS
.\"O The number of IP datagrams discarded per second because no route could
.\"O be found to transmit them to their destination [ipOutNoRoutes].
宛先に送信するための経路が見つからず破棄された、
1 秒あたりの IP データグラムの数 [ipOutNoRoutes]。
.\"O Note that this counter includes any packets counted in fwddgm/s
.\"O which meet this 'no-route' criterion.
このカウンタは、fwddgm/s でカウントされるパケットが、
(経路なしの) 基準にマッチして破棄された場合に、
カウントに含める点に注意すること。
.\"O Note that this includes any datagrams which a host cannot route because all
.\"O of its default routers are down.
また、このカウンタは、すべてのデフォルトルートが
ダウンしていて、
ホストが経路を見つけられなかったデータグラムを、
カウントする点に注意すること。
.RE

.B asmf/s
.RS
.\"O The number of failures detected per second by the IP re-assembly
.\"O algorithm (for whatever reason: timed out, errors, etc) [ipReasmFails].
1 秒あたりに IP 再構築アルゴリズムで検知した失敗の数
(理由は、タイムアウト、エラーなど、何でも含まれる) [ipReasmFails]。
.\"O Note that this is not necessarily a count of discarded IP
.\"O fragments since some algorithms can lose track of the number of
.\"O fragments by combining them as they are received.
破棄された IP フラグメントをカウントする必要がない点に注意すること。
なぜなら、破棄されたフラグメントの数を、
受信したフラグメントと合算してしまって、
追跡できないアルゴリズムも存在するためである。
.RE

.B fragf/s
.RS
.\"O The number of IP datagrams that have been discarded per second because
.\"O they needed to be fragmented at this entity but could not
.\"O be, e.g., because their Don't Fragment flag was set [ipFragFails].
このエンティティでのフラグメント化が必要であったが、
フラグメント化ができなかったために破棄された、
1 秒あたりの IP データグラムの数。
例えば、フラグメント化不可フラグが設定されている場合など [ipFragFails]。
.RE

.\"O With the
.\"O .B IP6
.\"O keyword, statistics about IPv6 network traffic are reported.
.B IP6
キーワードを指定すると、IPv6 ネットワークトラフィックの統計がレポートされる。
.\"O Note that IPv6 statistics depend on
.\"O .BR sadc 's
.\"O option "-S IPV6" to be collected.
IPv6 の統計は、
.B sadc
のオプション "-S IPV6" に依存して収集される点に注意すること。
.\"O The following values are displayed (formal SNMP names between
.\"O square brackets):
以下の値が表示される (正式な SNMP 名を角括弧内に記載する)。

.B irec6/s
.RS
.\"O The total number of input datagrams received from
.\"O interfaces per second, including those received in error
.\"O [ipv6IfStatsInReceives].
1 秒あたりにインタフェースが受信した入力データグラムの数。
エラーで受信されたデータグラムも含む [ipv6IfStatsInReceives]。
.RE

.B fwddgm6/s
.RS
.\"O The number of output datagrams per second which this
.\"O entity received and forwarded to their final
.\"O destinations [ipv6IfStatsOutForwDatagrams].
1 秒あたりにエンティティが受信して最終の宛先に転送した
出力データグラムの数 [ipv6IfStatsOutForwDatagrams]。
.RE

.B idel6/s
.RS
.\"O The total number of datagrams successfully
.\"O delivered per second to IPv6 user-protocols (including ICMP)
.\"O [ipv6IfStatsInDelivers].
1 秒あたりに (ICMP を含む) IPv6 ユーザプロトコルへの配送に成功した
データグラムの数 [ipv6IfStatsInDelivers]。
.RE

.B orq6/s
.RS
.\"O The total number of IPv6 datagrams which local IPv6
.\"O user-protocols (including ICMP) supplied per second to IPv6 in
.\"O requests for transmission [ipv6IfStatsOutRequests].
送信リクエストのために、
(ICMP を含む) ローカル IPv6 ユーザプロトコルが
IPv6 に提供された
1 秒あたりの IPv6 データグラムの数
 [ipv6IfStatsOutRequests]。
.\"O Note that this counter
.\"O does not include any datagrams counted in fwddgm6/s.
このカウンタは、fwddgm6/s でカウントされる
データグラムをカウントしない点に注意すること。
.RE

.B asmrq6/s
.RS
.\"O The number of IPv6 fragments received per second which needed
.\"O to be reassembled at this interface [ipv6IfStatsReasmReqds].
1 秒あたりに、このインタフェースで再構築する
必要があった IPv6 フラグメントの数 [ipv6IfStatsReasmReqds]。
.RE

.B asmok6/s
.RS
.\"O The number of IPv6 datagrams successfully
.\"O reassembled per second [ipv6IfStatsReasmOKs].
1 秒あたりに再構築が成功した IPv6 データグラムの数 [ipv6IfStatsReasmOKs]。
.RE

.B imcpck6/s
.RS
.\"O The number of multicast packets received per second
.\"O by the interface [ipv6IfStatsInMcastPkts].
1 秒あたりに受信したマルチキャストパケットの数 [ipv6IfStatsInMcastPkts]。
.RE

.B omcpck6/s
.RS
.\"O The number of multicast packets transmitted per second
.\"O by the interface [ipv6IfStatsOutMcastPkts].
1 秒あたりに送信したマルチキャストパケットの数 [ipv6IfStatsOutMcastPkts]。
.RE

.B fragok6/s
.RS
.\"O The number of IPv6 datagrams that have been
.\"O successfully fragmented at this output interface per second
.\"O [ipv6IfStatsOutFragOKs].
1 秒あたりにこの出力インタフェースでフラグメント化が成功した
IPv6 データグラムの数 [ipv6IfStatsOutFragOKs]。
.RE

.B fragcr6/s
.RS
.\"O The number of output datagram fragments that have
.\"O been generated per second as a result of fragmentation at
.\"O this output interface [ipv6IfStatsOutFragCreates].
1 秒あたりにこの出力インタフェースでのフラグメント化の結果、
生成された出力データグラムフラグメントの数 [ipv6IfStatsOutFragCreates]。
.RE

.\"O With the
.\"O .B EIP6
.\"O keyword, statistics about IPv6 network errors are reported.
.B EIP6
キーワードを指定すると、IPv6 ネットワークエラーの統計がレポートされる。
.\"O Note that IPv6 statistics depend on
.\"O .BR sadc 's
.\"O option "-S IPV6" to be collected.
IPv6 の統計は、
.B sadc
のオプション "-S IPV6" に依存して収集される点に注意すること。
.\"O The following values are displayed (formal SNMP names between
.\"O square brackets):
以下の値が表示される (正式な SNMP 名を角括弧内に記載する)。

.B ihdrer6/s
.RS
.\"O The number of input datagrams discarded per second due to
.\"O errors in their IPv6 headers, including version
.\"O number mismatch, other format errors, hop count
.\"O exceeded, errors discovered in processing their
.\"O IPv6 options, etc. [ipv6IfStatsInHdrErrors]
IPv6 ヘッダのエラーにより、1 秒あたりに破棄された入力データグラムの数。
IPv6 ヘッダのエラーには、バージョン番号の不一致、
その他のフォーマットエラー、ホップカウント超過、
IP オプションの処理で見つかったエラーなどが含まれる [ipv6IfStatsInHdrErrors]。
.RE

.B iadrer6/s
.RS
.\"O The number of input datagrams discarded per second because
.\"O the IPv6 address in their IPv6 header's destination
.\"O field was not a valid address to be received at
.\"O this entity. This count includes invalid
.\"O addresses (e.g., ::0) and unsupported addresses
.\"O (e.g., addresses with unallocated prefixes). For
.\"O entities which are not IPv6 routers and therefore
.\"O do not forward datagrams, this counter includes
.\"O datagrams discarded because the destination address
.\"O was not a local address [ipv6IfStatsInAddrErrors].
IPv6 ヘッダの宛先フィールドに書かれた IPv6 アドレスが、
このエンティティが受け取る有効なアドレスでなかったために、
1 秒あたりに破棄された入力データグラムの数。
このカウンタは、無効なアドレス (例: ::0) と
サポートされていないアドレス (例: 確保されていないプレフィックスのアドレス) を含む。
エンティティが IPv6 ルータではなく、データグラムを転送しない場合、
このカウンタは、宛先アドレスがローカルアドレスでないために破棄された
データグラムをカウントする [ipv6IfStatsInAddrErrors].。
.RE

.B iukwnp6/s
.RS
.\"O The number of locally-addressed datagrams
.\"O received successfully but discarded per second because of an
.\"O unknown or unsupported protocol [ipv6IfStatsInUnknownProtos].
1 秒あたりに受信に成功したローカルアドレス宛てデータグラムのうち、
不明またはサポート外のプロトコルであったために
破棄されたデータグラムの数 [ipv6IfStatsInUnknownProtos]。
.RE

.B i2big6/s
.RS
.\"O The number of input datagrams that could not be
.\"O forwarded per second because their size exceeded the link MTU
.\"O of outgoing interface [ipv6IfStatsInTooBigErrors].
サイズが出力インタフェースのリンク MTU を越えたために、
フォワードされなかった入力データグラムの数 [ipv6IfStatsInTooBigErrors]。
.RE

.B idisc6/s
.RS
.\"O The number of input IPv6 datagrams per second for which no
.\"O problems were encountered to prevent their
.\"O continued processing, but which were discarded
.\"O (e.g., for lack of buffer space)
.\"O [ipv6IfStatsInDiscards]. Note that this
.\"O counter does not include any datagrams discarded
.\"O while awaiting re-assembly.
後続処理を妨げる問題はなかったが、
(例えば、バッファ領域の不足などで) 破棄された、
1 秒あたりの入力 IP データグラムの数 [ipv6IfStatsInDiscards]。
このカウンタは、再構築を待っている間に破棄された
データグラムを、カウントしない点に注意すること。
.RE

.B odisc6/s
.RS
.\"O The number of output IPv6 datagrams per second for which no
.\"O problem was encountered to prevent their
.\"O transmission to their destination, but which were
.\"O discarded (e.g., for lack of buffer space)
.\"O [ipv6IfStatsOutDiscards]. Note
.\"O that this counter would include datagrams counted
.\"O in fwddgm6/s if any such packets
.\"O met this (discretionary) discard criterion.
送信を妨げる問題はなかったが、
(例えば、バッファ領域の不足などで) 破棄された、
1 秒あたり出力 IP データグラムの数 [ipv6IfStatsOutDiscards]。
このカウンタは、fwddgm6/s でカウントされるパケットが、
この (裁量による) 破棄基準にマッチして破棄された場合に、
カウントに含める点に注意すること。
.RE

.B inort6/s
.RS
.\"O The number of input datagrams discarded per second because no
.\"O route could be found to transmit them to their
.\"O destination [ipv6IfStatsInNoRoutes].
宛先に送信するための経路が見つからず破棄された、
1 秒あたりの入力データグラムの数 [ipv6IfStatsInNoRoutes]。
.RE

.B onort6/s
.RS
.\"O The number of locally generated IP datagrams discarded per second
.\"O because no route could be found to transmit them to their
.\"O destination [unknown formal SNMP name].
宛先に送信するための経路が見つからず破棄された、
1 秒あたりのローカルで生成された IP データグラムの数 [正式な SNMP 名はない]。
.RE

.B asmf6/s
.RS
.\"O The number of failures detected per second by the IPv6
.\"O re-assembly algorithm (for whatever reason: timed
.\"O out, errors, etc.) [ipv6IfStatsReasmFails].
1 秒あたりに IPv6 再構築アルゴリズムで検知した失敗の数
(理由は、タイムアウト、エラーなど、何でも含まれる) [ipv6IfStatsReasmFails]。
.\"O Note that this is not
.\"O necessarily a count of discarded IPv6 fragments
.\"O since some algorithms
.\"O can lose track of the number of fragments
.\"O by combining them as they are received.
破棄された IPv6 フラグメントをカウントする必要がない点に注意すること。
なぜなら、破棄されたフラグメントの数を、
受信したフラグメントと合算してしまって、
追跡できないアルゴリズムも存在するためである。
.RE

.B fragf6/s
.RS
.\"O The number of IPv6 datagrams that have been
.\"O discarded per second because they needed to be fragmented
.\"O at this output interface but could not be
.\"O [ipv6IfStatsOutFragFails].
このエンティティでのフラグメント化が必要であったが、
フラグメント化ができなかったために破棄された、
1 秒あたりの IP データグラムの数 [ipv6IfStatsOutFragFails]。
.RE

.B itrpck6/s
.RS
.\"O The number of input datagrams discarded per second because
.\"O datagram frame didn't carry enough data
.\"O [ipv6IfStatsInTruncatedPkts].
データグラムフレームが十分なデータを
運んでいなかったため破棄された、
1 秒あたりの入力データグラムの数
[ipv6IfStatsInTruncatedPkts]。
.RE

.\"O With the
.\"O .B NFS
.\"O keyword, statistics about NFS client activity are reported.
.\"O The following values are displayed:
.B NFS
キーワードを指定すると、NFS クライアントの活性度の統計がレポートされる。
以下の値が表示される。

.B call/s
.RS
.\"O Number of RPC requests made per second.
1 秒あたりの RPC リクエスト数。
.RE

.B retrans/s
.RS
.\"O Number of RPC requests per second, those which needed to be retransmitted (for
.\"O example because of a server timeout).
(サーバータイムアウトなどの原因により) 1 秒あたりに再送信された RPC リクエスト数。
.RE

.B read/s
.RS
.\"O Number of 'read' RPC calls made per second.
1 秒あたりに実行した 'read' RPC の数。
.RE

.B write/s
.RS
.\"O Number of 'write' RPC calls made per second.
1 秒あたりに実行した 'write' RPC の数。
.RE

.B access/s
.RS
.\"O Number of 'access' RPC calls made per second.
1 秒あたりに実行した 'access' RPC の数。
.RE

.B getatt/s
.RS
.\"O Number of 'getattr' RPC calls made per second.
1 秒あたりに実行した 'getattr' RPC の数。
.RE

.\"O With the
.\"O .B NFSD
.\"O keyword, statistics about NFS server activity are reported.
.\"O The following values are displayed:
.B NFSD
キーワードを指定すると、NFS サーバーの活性度の統計がレポートされる。
以下の値が表示される。

.B scall/s
.RS
.\"O Number of RPC requests received per second.
1 秒あたりに受信した RPC リクエスト数。
.RE

.B badcall/s
.RS
.\"O Number of bad RPC requests received per second, those whose
.\"O processing generated an error.
1 秒あたりに受信した不正な RPC リクエスト数。
処理でエラーが発生したリクエスト数。
.RE

.B packet/s
.RS
.\"O Number of network packets received per second.
1 秒あたりに受信したネットワークパケット数。
.RE

.B udp/s
.RS
.\"O Number of UDP packets received per second.
1 秒あたりに受信した UDP パケット数。
.RE

.B tcp/s
.RS
.\"O Number of TCP packets received per second.
1 秒あたりに受信した TCP パケット数。
.RE

.B hit/s
.RS
.\"O Number of reply cache hits per second.
1 秒あたりのリプライキャッシュのヒット数。
.RE

.B miss/s
.RS
.\"O Number of reply cache misses per second.
1 秒あたりのリプライキャッシュのミス数。
.RE

.B sread/s
.RS
.\"O Number of 'read' RPC calls received per second.
1 秒あたりに受信した 'read' RPC の数。
.RE

.B swrite/s
.RS
.\"O Number of 'write' RPC calls received per second.
1 秒あたりに受信した 'write' RPC の数。
.RE

.B saccess/s
.RS
.\"O Number of 'access' RPC calls received per second.
1 秒あたりに受信した 'access' RPC の数。
.RE

.B sgetatt/s
.RS
.\"O Number of 'getattr' RPC calls received per second.
1 秒あたりに受信した 'getattr' RPC の数。
.RE

.\"O With the
.\"O .B SOCK
.\"O keyword, statistics on sockets in use are reported
.\"O (IPv4).
.B SOCK
キーワードを指定すると、使用中のソケットの統計がレポートされる (IPv4)。
.\"O The following values are displayed:
以下の値が表示される。

.B totsck
.RS
.\"O Total number of sockets used by the system.
システムが使用しているソケットの数。
.RE

.B tcpsck
.RS
.\"O Number of TCP sockets currently in use.
現在使用している TCP ソケットの数。
.RE

.B udpsck
.RS
.\"O Number of UDP sockets currently in use.
現在使用している UDP ソケットの数。
.RE

.B rawsck
.RS
.\"O Number of RAW sockets currently in use.
現在使用している RAW ソケットの数。
.RE

.B ip-frag
.RS
.\"O Number of IP fragments currently in queue.
現在キューにある IP フラグメントの数。
.RE

.B tcp-tw
.RS
.\"O Number of TCP sockets in TIME_WAIT state.
TIME_WAIT 状態の TCP ソケットの数。
.RE

.\"O With the
.\"O .B SOCK6
.\"O keyword, statistics on sockets in use are reported (IPv6).
.B SOCK6
キーワードを指定すると、使用中のソケットの統計がレポートされる (IPv6)。
.\"O Note that IPv6 statistics depend on
.\"O .BR sadc 's
.\"O option "-S IPV6" to be collected.
IPv6 の統計は、
.B sadc
のオプション "-S IPV6" に依存して収集される点に注意すること。
.\"O The following values are displayed:
以下の値が表示される。

.B tcp6sck
.RS
.\"O Number of TCPv6 sockets currently in use.
現在使用している TCPv6 ソケットの数。
.RE

.B udp6sck
.RS
.\"O Number of UDPv6 sockets currently in use.
現在使用している UDPv6 ソケットの数。
.RE

.B raw6sck
.RS
.\"O Number of RAWv6 sockets currently in use.
現在使用している RAWv6 ソケットの数。
.RE

.B ip6-frag
.RS
.\"O Number of IPv6 fragments currently in use.
現在使用している IPv6 フラグメントの数。
.RE

.\"O With the
.\"O .B SOFT
.\"O keyword, statistics about software-based network processing are reported.
.B SOFT
キーワードを指定すると、ソフトウェアベースの
ネットワーク処理の統計がレポートされる。
.\"O The following values are displayed:
以下の値が表示される。

.B total/s
.RS
.\"O The total number of network frames processed per second.
1 秒あたりに処理したネットワークフレームの数。
.RE

.B dropd/s
.RS
.\"O The total number of network frames dropped per second because there
.\"O was no room on the processing queue.
処理キューに空きがなく、1 秒あたりに破棄したネットワークフレームの数。
.RE

.B squeezd/s
.RS
.\"O The number of times the softirq handler function terminated per second
.\"O because its budget was consumed or the time limit was reached, but more
.\"O work could have been done.
1 秒あたりに終了したソフトウェア割り込みハンドラ関数の回数。
このハンドラ関数はバジェット (budget) が消費されるか、回数上限に達して、
これ以上処理が出来かかったために終了されている。
.RE

.B rx_rps/s
.RS
.\"O The number of times the CPU has been woken up per second
.\"O to process packets via an inter-processor interrupt.
1 秒あたりにパケットを処理するために
プロセッサ間割り込みで CPU が起こされた (wake up) 回数。
.RE

.B flw_lim/s
.RS
.\"O The number of times the flow limit has been reached per second.
1 秒あたりにフロー上限に達した回数。
.\"O Flow limiting is an optional RPS feature that can be used to limit the number of
.\"O packets queued to the backlog for each flow to a certain amount.
フロー上限はオプションの RPS (Receive Packet Steering) feature で、
パケットの数を制限して、ある一定量のフローを
バックログのキューに送る。
.\"O This can help ensure that smaller flows are processed even though
.\"O much larger flows are pushing packets in.
大きなフローがパケットを押し込んできた場合にも、
小さなフローが処理されることを保証するのに役立つ。
.RE

.\"O With the
.\"O .B TCP
.\"O keyword, statistics about TCPv4 network traffic are reported.
.B TCP
キーワードを指定すると、TCPv4 ネットワークトラフィックの統計をレポートする。
.\"O Note that TCPv4 statistics depend on
.\"O .BR sadc 's
.\"O option "-S SNMP" to be collected.
TCPv4 の統計は
.B sadc
のオプション "-S SNMP" に依存して収集される点に注意すること。
.\"O The following values are displayed (formal SNMP names between
.\"O square brackets):
以下の値が表示される (正式な SNMP 名を角括弧内に記載する)。

.B active/s
.RS
.\"O The number of times TCP connections have made a direct
.\"O transition to the SYN-SENT state from the CLOSED state per second [tcpActiveOpens].
1 秒あたりに TCP 接続が CLOSED 状態から
SYN-SENT 状態へ直接遷移した回数 [tcpActiveOpens]。
.RE

.B passive/s
.RS
.\"O The number of times TCP connections have made a direct
.\"O transition to the SYN-RCVD state from the LISTEN state per second [tcpPassiveOpens].
1 秒あたりに TCP 接続が LISTEN 状態から
SYN-RCVD 状態へ直接遷移した回数 [tcpPassiveOpens]。
.RE

.B iseg/s
.RS
.\"O The total number of segments received per second, including those
.\"O received in error [tcpInSegs].  This count includes segments received on
.\"O currently established connections.
1 秒あたりに受信したエラーを含むセグメントの数 [tcpInSegs]。
このカウントには現在確立されている
接続で受信したセグメントを含む。
.RE

.B oseg/s
.RS
.\"O The total number of segments sent per second, including those on
.\"O current connections but excluding those containing only
.\"O retransmitted octets [tcpOutSegs].
1 秒あたりに受信したエラーを含むセグメントの数  [tcpOutSegs]。
現在の接続でのセグメントは含むが、
再送信されたオクテットのみのセグメントは含まない。
.RE

.\"O With the
.\"O .B ETCP
.\"O keyword, statistics about TCPv4 network errors are reported.
.B ETCP
キーワードを指定すると、TCPv4 ネットワークエラーの統計がレポートされる。
.\"O Note that TCPv4 statistics depend on
.\"O .BR sadc 's
.\"O option "-S SNMP" to be collected.
TCPv4 の統計は
.B sadc
のオプション "-S SNMP" に依存して収集される点に注意すること。
.\"O The following values are displayed (formal SNMP names between
.\"O square brackets):
以下の値が表示される (正式な SNMP 名を角括弧内に記載する)。

.B atmptf/s
.RS
.\"O The number of times per second TCP connections have made a direct
.\"O transition to the CLOSED state from either the SYN-SENT
.\"O state or the SYN-RCVD state, plus the number of times per second TCP
.\"O connections have made a direct transition to the LISTEN
.\"O state from the SYN-RCVD state [tcpAttemptFails].
1 秒あたりに TCP 接続が SYN-SENT 状態、または SYN-RCVD 状態から
CLOSED 状態に直接遷移した回数。
これにプラスして、TCP 接続が SYN-RCVD 状態から
LISTEN 状態に直接遷移した回数 [tcpAttemptFails]。
.RE

.B estres/s
.RS
.\"O The number of times per second TCP connections have made a direct
.\"O transition to the CLOSED state from either the ESTABLISHED
.\"O state or the CLOSE-WAIT state [tcpEstabResets].
1 秒あたりに TCP 接続が ESTABLISHED 状態、または CLOSE-WAIT 状態から
CLOSED 状態に直接遷移した回数 [tcpEstabResets]。
.RE

.B retrans/s
.RS
.\"O The total number of segments retransmitted per second - that is, the
.\"O number of TCP segments transmitted containing one or more
.\"O previously transmitted octets [tcpRetransSegs].
1 秒あたりに再送信されたセグメントの数。
つまり、以前に送信された 1 つ以上のオクテットを含んでいる、
送信された TCP セグメントの数。
.RE

.B isegerr/s
.RS
.\"O The total number of segments received in error (e.g., bad
.\"O TCP checksums) per second [tcpInErrs].
1 秒あたりに受信した (例えば、不良 TCP チェックサムなどの)
エラーセグメントの数 [tcpInErrs]。
.RE

.B orsts/s
.RS
.\"O The number of TCP segments sent per second containing the RST flag [tcpOutRsts].
1 秒あたりに送信された RST フラグを含む TCP セグメントの数 [tcpOutRsts]。
.RE

.\"O With the
.\"O .B UDP
.\"O keyword, statistics about UDPv4 network traffic are reported.
.B UDP
キーワードを指定すると、UDPv4 ネットワークトラフィックの統計がレポートされる。
.\"O Note that UDPv4 statistics depend on
.\"O .BR sadc's
.\"O option "-S SNMP" to be collected.
UDPv4 の統計は
.B sadc
のオプション "-S SNMP" に依存して収集される点に注意すること。
.\"O The following values are displayed (formal SNMP names between
.\"O square brackets):
以下の値が表示される (正式な SNMP 名を角括弧内に記載する)。

.B idgm/s
.RS
.\"O The total number of UDP datagrams delivered per second to UDP users [udpInDatagrams].
1 秒あたりに UDP ユーザに向けて配送された
UDP データグラムの数 [udpInDatagrams]。
.RE

.B odgm/s
.RS
.\"O The total number of UDP datagrams sent per second from this entity [udpOutDatagrams].
1 秒あたりにこのエンティティから送信された
UDP データグラムの数 [udpOutDatagrams]。
.RE

.B noport/s
.RS
.\"O The total number of received UDP datagrams per second for which there
.\"O was no application at the destination port [udpNoPorts].
1 秒あたりに受信した、宛先ポートにアプリケーションがない、
UDP データグラムの数 [udpNoPorts]。
.RE

.B idgmerr/s
.RS
.\"O The number of received UDP datagrams per second that could not be
.\"O delivered for reasons other than the lack of an application
.\"O at the destination port [udpInErrors].
1 秒あたりに受信した、宛先ポートにアプリケーションがない以外の
理由で配送できなかった、UDP データグラムの数 [udpInErrors]。
.RE

.\"O With the
.\"O .B UDP6
.\"O keyword, statistics about UDPv6 network traffic are reported.
.B UDP6
キーワードを指定すると、UDPv6 ネットワークトラフィックの統計がレポートされる。
.\"O Note that UDPv6 statistics depend on
.\"O .BR sadc 's
.\"O option "-S IPV6" to be collected.
UDPv6 の統計は
.B sadc
のオプション "-S IPV6" に依存して収集される点に注意すること。
.\"O The following values are displayed (formal SNMP names between
.\"O square brackets):
以下の値が表示される (正式な SNMP 名を角括弧内に記載する)。

.B idgm6/s
.RS
.\"O The total number of UDP datagrams delivered per second to UDP users
.\"O [udpInDatagrams].
1 秒あたりに UDP ユーザに向けて配送された
UDP データグラムの数 [udpInDatagrams]。
.RE

.B odgm6/s
.RS
.\"O The total number of UDP datagrams sent per second from this
.\"O entity [udpOutDatagrams].
1 秒あたりにこのエンティティから送信された
UDP データグラムの数 [udpOutDatagrams]。
.RE

.B noport6/s
.RS
.\"O The total number of received UDP datagrams per second for which there
.\"O was no application at the destination port [udpNoPorts].
1 秒あたりに受信した、宛先ポートにアプリケーションがない、
UDP データグラムの数 [udpNoPorts]。
.RE

.B idgmer6/s
.RS
.\"O The number of received UDP datagrams per second that could not be
.\"O delivered for reasons other than the lack of an application
.\"O at the destination port [udpInErrors].
1 秒あたりに受信した、宛先ポートにアプリケーションがない以外の
理由で配送できなかった、UDP データグラムの数 [udpInErrors]。
.RE

.\"O The
.\"O .B ALL
.\"O keyword is equivalent to specifying all the keywords above and therefore all the network
.\"O activities are reported.
.B ALL
キーワードは、上記の全てのキーワードを指定したのと同じであり、
全てのネットワーク活性度がレポートされる。
.RE
.RE
.IP "-o [ filename ]"
.\"O Save the readings in the file in binary form. Each reading
.\"O is in a separate record. The default value of the
.\"O .I filename
.\"O parameter is the current standard system activity daily data file.
読み込みをバイナリ形式でファイルに保存する。
各読み込みは別レコードになる。
.I filename
パラメータのデフォルトは、
現在の標準システム活性度日次データファイルである。
.\"O If
.\"O .I filename
.\"O is a directory instead of a plain file then it is considered as the directory
.\"O where the standard system activity daily data files are located.
.I filename
がプレーンファイルではなく、ディレクトリの場合、
標準システム活性度日次データファイルが
置かれたディレクトリと解釈される。
.\"O The -o option is exclusive of the -f option.
-f オプションと -o オプションは同時に指定することはできない。
.\"O All the data available from the kernel are saved in the file (in fact,
.\"O .B sar
.\"O calls its data collector
.\"O .B sadc
.\"O with the option "-S ALL".
.\"O See
.\"O .BR sadc (8)
.\"O manual page).
カーネルから取得できる全てのデータがファイルに保存される
(実際、
.B sar
はデータ収集プログラム
.B sadc
をオプション "-S ALL" を付けて呼び出す。
.BR sadc (8)
のマニュアルページを参照すること)。
.IP "-P { cpu_list | ALL }"
.\"O Report per-processor statistics for the specified processor or processors.
指定したプロセッサ (群) のプロセッサごとの統計をレポートする。
.\"O .I cpu_list
.\"O is a list of comma-separated values or range of values (e.g.,
.\"O .BR 0,2,4-7,12- ).
.I cpu_list
はカンマ区切りの値、または値の範囲である
(例えば
.BR 0,2,4-7,12- )。
.\"O Note that processor 0 is the first processor, and processor
.\"O .B all
.\"O is the global average among all processors.
プロセッサ 0 は最初のプロセッサで、
プロセッサ
.B all
は全てのプロセッサの平均である。
.\"O Specifying the
.\"O .B ALL
.\"O keyword reports statistics for each individual processor, and globally for
.\"O all processors. Offline processors are not displayed.
.B ALL
キーワードを指定すると、各プロセッサと全てのプロセッサ全体の統計をレポートする。
オフラインのプロセッサは表示されない。
.IP -p
.\"O Pretty-print device names. Use this option in conjunction with option -d.
デバイス名を小綺麗に表示する。
このオプションは、オプション -d と一緒に使うこと。
.\"O By default names are printed as
.\"O .I devM-n
.\"O where M and n are the major and minor numbers for the device.
デフォルトの名前は
.I devM-n
のように表示される。M がデバイスのメジャー番号、n がマイナー番号である。
.\"O Use of this option displays the names of the devices as they (should) appear
.\"O in /dev. Name mappings are controlled by
.\"O .IR /etc/sysconfig/sysstat.ioconf .
このオプションを使うと、/dev にあるデバイスの名前が表示される。
名前のマッピングは
.I /etc/sysconfig/sysstat.ioconf
で制御される。
.IP -q
.\"O Report queue length and load averages. The following values are displayed:
キューの長さとロードアベレージをレポートする。
以下の値が表示される。

.B runq-sz
.RS
.RS
.\"O Run queue length (number of tasks waiting for run time).
実行キューの長さ (実行時間を待っているタスク数)。
.RE

.B plist-sz
.RS
.\"O Number of tasks in the task list.
タスクリストにあるタスク数。
.RE

.B ldavg-1
.RS
.\"O System load average for the last minute.
.\"O The load average is calculated as the average number of runnable or
.\"O running tasks (R state), and the number of tasks in uninterruptible
.\"O sleep (D state) over the specified interval.
過去 1 分間のシステムロードアベレージ。
ロードアベレージは、指定した間隔における、
実行可能または実行中 (R 状態) のタスク数と、
割り込み不可状態スリープ (D 状態) のタスク数の平均である。
.RE

.B ldavg-5
.RS
.\"O System load average for the past 5 minutes.
過去 5 分間のシステムロードアベレージ。
.RE

.B ldavg-15
.RS
.\"O System load average for the past 15 minutes.
過去 15 分間のシステムロードアベレージ。
.RE

.B blocked
.RS
.\"O Number of tasks currently blocked, waiting for I/O to complete.
現在 I/O の完了を待って、ブロックされているタスクの数。
.RE
.RE
.IP "-r [ ALL ]"
.\"O Report memory utilization statistics. The
.\"O .B ALL
.\"O keyword indicates that all the memory fields should be displayed.
メモリ使用の統計をレポートする。
.B ALL
キーワードをしていると、すべてのメモリフィールドが表示される。
.\"O The following values may be displayed:
以下の値が表示される。

.B kbmemfree
.RS
.RS
.\"O Amount of free memory available in kilobytes.
利用可能なフリーなメモリ量 (キロバイト)。
.RE

.B kbavail
.RS
.\"O Estimate of how much memory in kilobytes is available for starting new
.\"O applications, without swapping.
スワップなしで新しいアプリケーションを開始するのに
利用可能なメモリ量の推定値 (キロバイト)。
.\"O The estimate takes into account that the system needs some page cache to
.\"O function well, and that not all reclaimable slab will be reclaimable,
.\"O due to items being in use. The impact of those factors will vary from
.\"O system to system.
推定値は、システムがうまく動作するためのページキャッシュと、
再利用可能スラブが利用中で再利用されないことを
考慮に入れている。
これらの要素の影響は、システムごとに異なる。
.RE

.B kbmemused
.RS
.\"O Amount of used memory in kilobytes (calculated as total installed memory -
使用メモリ量 (キロバイト)
(インストールされているメモリ - 
.B kbmemfree
-
.B kbbuffers
-
.B kbcached
-
.\"O .BR kbslab ).
.B kbslab
で計算される)。
.RE

.B %memused
.RS
.\"O Percentage of used memory.
使用メモリの割合。
.RE

.B kbbuffers
.RS
.\"O Amount of memory used as buffers by the kernel in kilobytes.
カーネルがバッファとして使っているメモリ (キロバイト)。
.RE

.B kbcached
.RS
.\"O Amount of memory used to cache data by the kernel in kilobytes.
カーネルがキャッシュデータとして使っているメモリ (キロバイト)。
.RE

.B kbcommit
.RS
.\"O Amount of memory in kilobytes needed for current workload. This is an estimate of how much
.\"O RAM/swap is needed to guarantee that there never is out of memory.
現在のワークロードで必要なメモリ量 (キロバイト)。
これは、アウトオブメモリを起こさないようことを
保証するのに必要な RAM/swap の推定値である。
.RE

.B %commit
.RS
.\"O Percentage of memory needed for current workload in relation to the total amount of memory (RAM+swap).
現在のワークロードで必要なメモリの、総メモリ (RAM+swap) に対する割合。
.\"O This number may be greater than 100% because the kernel usually overcommits memory.
カーネルは通常、メモリのオーバーコミットをするので、
この数値は 100% より大きくなる可能性がある。
.RE

.B kbactive
.RS
.\"O Amount of active memory in kilobytes (memory that has been used more recently
.\"O and usually not reclaimed unless absolutely necessary).
アクティブなメモリ量 (キロバイト)
(最近に利用されて、本当に必要でない限り再利用されないメモリ)。
.RE

.B kbinact
.RS
.\"O Amount of inactive memory in kilobytes (memory which has been less recently
.\"O used. It is more eligible to be reclaimed for other purposes).
アクティブでないメモリ量 (キロバイト)
(最近に利用されておらず、他の用途への再利用に適格なメモリ)。
.RE

.B kbdirty
.RS
.\"O Amount of memory in kilobytes waiting to get written back to the disk.
ディスクへの書き戻しを待っているメモリ量 (キロバイト)。
.RE

.B kbanonpg
.RS
.\"O Amount of non-file backed pages in kilobytes mapped into userspace page tables.
ユーザ空間ページテーブルへマップされるファイルに紐付かない
(non-file backed) ページ数。
.RE

.B kbslab
.RS
.\"O Amount of memory in kilobytes used by the kernel to cache data structures for its own use.
カーネルがキャッシュデータ構造、またはカーネル自身で
使っているメモリ量 (キロバイト)。
.RE

.B kbkstack
.RS
.\"O Amount of memory in kilobytes used for kernel stack space.
カーネルスタック空間として使っているメモリ量 (キロバイト)。
.RE

.B kbpgtbl
.RS
.\"O Amount of memory in kilobytes dedicated to the lowest level of page tables.
ページテーブルの最下層として割り当てられるメモリ量 (キロバイト)。
.RE

.B kbvmused
.RS
.\"O Amount of memory in kilobytes of used virtual address space.
仮想アドレス空間として使っているメモリ量 (キロバイト)。
.RE
.RE
.IP -S
.\"O Report swap space utilization statistics.
.\"O The following values are displayed:
スワップ空間の利用統計をレポートする。
以下の値が表示される。

.B kbswpfree
.RS
.RS
.\"O Amount of free swap space in kilobytes.
利用されていないスワップ空間の量 (キロバイト)。
.RE

.B kbswpused
.RS
.\"O Amount of used swap space in kilobytes.
利用されているスワップ空間の量 (キロバイト)。
.RE

.B %swpused
.RS
.\"O Percentage of used swap space.
スワップ空間の利用割合。
.RE

.B kbswpcad
.RS
.\"O Amount of cached swap memory in kilobytes.
キャッシュスワップメモリの量 (キロバイト)。
.\"O This is memory that once was swapped out, is swapped back in
.\"O but still also is in the swap area (if memory is needed it doesn't need
.\"O to be swapped out again because it is already in the swap area. This
.\"O saves I/O).
これは一度スワップアウトされて、スワップバックされているが、
まだスワップ領域にあるメモリである
(もしメモリが必要になった場合、既にスワップ領域にあるため、
再度スワップアウトする必要がない。これで I/O を削減できる)。
.RE

.B %swpcad
.RS
.\"O Percentage of cached swap memory in relation to the amount of used swap space.
使用されているスワップ空間に占める、
キャッシュされたスワップメモリの割合。
.RE
.RE
.IP "-s [ hh:mm[:ss] ]"
.\"O Set the starting time of the data, causing the
.\"O .B sar
.\"O command to extract records time-tagged at, or following, the time
.\"O specified. The default starting time is 08:00:00.
データの開始時刻を設定する。
.B sar
は指定された時刻から、レコードの抽出を開始する。
デフォルトの開始時刻は、08:00:00 である。
.\"O Hours must be given in 24-hour format. This option can be
.\"O used only when data are read from a file (option -f).
時は 24 時間制で指定しなければならない。
このオプションは、(オプション -f で) データを
ファイルから読み出す場合にのみ使われる。
.IP "--sadc"
.\"O Indicate which data collector is called by
.\"O .BR sar .
どのデータ収集プログラムが
.B sar
から呼び出されるかを表示する。
.\"O If the data collector is sought in PATH then enter "which sadc" to
.\"O know where it is located.
データ収集プログラムが環境変数 PATH から検索できる場合、
その場所は "which sadc" を入力して知ることができる。
.IP -t
.\"O When reading data from a daily data file, indicate that
.\"O .B sar
.\"O should display the timestamps in the original local time of
.\"O the data file creator. Without this option, the
.\"O .B sar
.\"O command displays the timestamps in the user's locale time.
日次データファイルから読み出す場合、
.B sar
はタイムスタンプを、データファイル作成者のオリジナルのローカル時間で表示する。
このオプションを指定しない場合、
.B sar
コマンドはユーザのローカル時間で表示する。
.IP "-u [ ALL ]"
.\"O Report CPU utilization. The
.\"O .B ALL
.\"O keyword indicates that all the CPU fields should be displayed.
CPU 利用の統計をレポートする。
.B ALL
キーワードを指定すると、全ての CPU フィールドが表示される。
.\"O The report may show the following fields:
レポートでは以下のフィールドが表示される可能性がある。

.B %user
.RS
.RS
.\"O Percentage of CPU utilization that occurred while executing at the user
.\"O level (application). Note that this field includes time spent running
.\"O virtual processors.
ユーザレベル (アプリケーション) で実行された CPU 利用の割合。
このフィールドは仮想プロセッサで使われる時間を含む。
.RE

.B %usr
.RS
.\"O Percentage of CPU utilization that occurred while executing at the user
.\"O level (application). Note that this field does NOT include time spent
.\"O running virtual processors.
ユーザレベル (アプリケーション) で実行された CPU 利用の割合。
このフィールドは仮想プロセッサで使われる時間を「含まない」。
.RE

.B %nice
.RS
.\"O Percentage of CPU utilization that occurred while executing at the user
.\"O level with nice priority.
nice 優先度を付けてユーザレベルで実行された CPU 利用の割合。
.RE

.B %system
.RS
.\"O Percentage of CPU utilization that occurred while executing at the system
.\"O level (kernel). Note that this field includes time spent servicing
.\"O hardware and software interrupts.
システムレベル (カーネル) で実行された CPU 利用の割合。
このフィールドはハードウェア割り込みと
ソフトウェア割り込みで使われた時間を含む。
.RE

.B %sys
.RS
.\"O Percentage of CPU utilization that occurred while executing at the system
.\"O level (kernel). Note that this field does NOT include time spent servicing
.\"O hardware or software interrupts.
システムレベル (カーネル) で実行された CPU 利用の割合。
このフィールドはハードウェア割り込みと
ソフトウェア割り込みで使われた時間を「含まない」。
.RE

.B %iowait
.RS
.\"O Percentage of time that the CPU or CPUs were idle during which
.\"O the system had an outstanding disk I/O request.
システムに目立ったディスク I/O リクエストがあり、
CPU (群) がアイドル状態であった時間の割合。
.RE

.B %steal
.RS
.\"O Percentage of time spent in involuntary wait by the virtual CPU
.\"O or CPUs while the hypervisor was servicing another virtual processor.
ハイパーバイザーが他の仮想プロセッサにサービスを行っているために、
仮想 CPU (群) が不本意に待たされている時間の割合。
.RE

.B %irq
.RS
.\"O Percentage of time spent by the CPU or CPUs to service hardware interrupts.
CPU (群) がハードウェア割り込みへのサービスに使った時間の割合。
.RE

.B %soft
.RS
.\"O Percentage of time spent by the CPU or CPUs to service software interrupts.
CPU (群) がソフトウェア割り込みへのサービスに使った時間の割合。
.RE

.B %guest
.RS
.\"O Percentage of time spent by the CPU or CPUs to run a virtual processor.
CPU (群) が仮想プロセッサを実行するのに使った時間の割合。
.RE

.B %gnice
.RS
.\"O Percentage of time spent by the CPU or CPUs to run a niced guest.
CPU (群) が nice されたゲストを実行するのに使った時間の割合。
.RE

.B %idle
.RS
.\"O Percentage of time that the CPU or CPUs were idle and the system
.\"O did not have an outstanding disk I/O request.
CPU (群) がアイドル状態でシステムに目立った
ディスク I/O リクエストがなかった時間の割合。
.RE
.RE
.IP -V
.\"O Print version number then exit.
バージョン番号を表示して、終了する。
.IP -v
.\"O Report status of inode, file and other kernel tables.
.\"O The following values are displayed:
inode、ファイル、その他のカーネルテーブルの状態をレポートする。
下記の値が表示される。

.B dentunusd
.RS
.RS
.\"O Number of unused cache entries in the directory cache.
ディレクトリキャッシュで使われていないキャッシュエントリの数。
.RE

.B file-nr
.RS
.\"O Number of file handles used by the system.
システムで使われているファイルハンドルの数。
.RE

.B inode-nr
.RS
.\"O Number of inode handlers used by the system.
システムで使われている inode ハンドルの数。
.RE

.B pty-nr
.RS
.\"O Number of pseudo-terminals used by the system.
システムで使われている擬似端末の数。
.RE
.RE
.IP -W
.\"O Report swapping statistics. The following values are displayed:
スワップ統計がレポートされる。
以下の値が表示される。

.B pswpin/s
.RS
.RS
.\"O Total number of swap pages the system brought in per second.
1 秒あたりにシステムに取り入れたスワップページの数。
.RE

.B pswpout/s
.RS
.\"O Total number of swap pages the system brought out per second.
1 秒あたりにシステムが吐き出したスワップページの数。
.RE
.RE
.IP -w
.\"O Report task creation and system switching activity.
タスク生成と、システムのスイッチングの活性度をレポートする。

.B proc/s
.RS
.RS
.\"O Total number of tasks created per second.
1 秒あたりに生成されたタスクの数。
.RE

.B cswch/s
.RS
.\"O Total number of context switches per second.
1 秒あたりのコンテキストスイッチの数。
.RE
.RE
.IP -y
.\"O Report TTY devices activity. The following values are displayed:
TTY デバイスの活性度をレポートする。
以下の値が表示される。

.B rcvin/s
.RS
.RS
.\"O Number of receive interrupts per second for current serial line. Serial line number
.\"O is given in the TTY column.
1 秒あたりの現在のシリアル線から受信した割り込みの数。
シリアル線の番号が TTY 列に表示される。
.RE

.B xmtin/s
.RS
.\"O Number of transmit interrupts per second for current serial line.
1 秒あたりの現在のシリアル線から送信した割り込みの数。
.RE

.B framerr/s
.RS
.\"O Number of frame errors per second for current serial line.
1 秒あたりの現在のシリアル線でのフレームエラーの数。
.RE

.B prtyerr/s
.RS
.\"O Number of parity errors per second for current serial line.
1 秒あたりの現在のシリアル線でのパリティエラーの数。
.RE

.B brk/s
.RS
.\"O Number of breaks per second for current serial line.
1 秒あたりの現在のシリアル線でのブレークの数。
.RE

.B ovrun/s
.RS
.\"O Number of overrun errors per second for current serial line.
1 秒あたりの現在のシリアル線でのオーバーランエラーの数。
.RE
.RE
.IP -z
.\"O Tell
.\"O .B sar
.\"O to omit output for any devices for which there was no activity during the
.\"O sample period.
サンプリング期間内に活動がなかったデバイスを
.B sar
の出力から省略する。

.\"O .SH ENVIRONMENT
.SH 環境変数
.\"O The
.\"O .B sar
.\"O command takes into account the following environment variables:
.B sar
コマンドは下記の環境変数を利用する。

.IP S_COLORS
.\"O When this variable is set, display statistics in color on the terminal.
この環境変数を設定すると、端末上で統計をカラー表示する。
.\"O Possible values for this variable are
.\"O .IR never ,
.\"O .IR always 
.\"O or
.\"O .IR auto
.\"O (the latter is the default).
この環境変数に指定可能な値は、
.IR never ,
.IR always ,
.I auto
である (最後がデフォルトである)。

.\"O Please note that the color (being red, yellow, or some other color) used to display a value
.\"O is not indicative of any kind of issue simply because of the color. It only indicates different
.\"O ranges of values.
値を表示する色 (赤、黄、またはその他の色) は、色によって何かの意味を示している訳ではない。
色は値の範囲を示しているだけである。

.IP S_COLORS_SGR
.\"O Specify the colors and other attributes used to display statistics on the terminal. 
.\"O Its value is a colon-separated list of capabilities that defaults to
.\"O .BR C=33;22:H=31;1:I=32;22:M=35;1:N=34;1:R=31;22:Z=34;22 .
.\"O Supported capabilities are:
端末で統計を表示する際に、色とその他の属性を指定する。
この値は、コロン区切りの機能のリストで、デフォルトは
.B C=33;22:H=31;1:I=32;22:M=35;1:N=34;1:R=31;22:Z=34;22
である。
サポートされている機能は以下のとおり。

.RS
.TP
.B C=
.\"O SGR (Select Graphic Rendition) substring for comments inserted in the binary daily
.\"O data files.
バイナリの日次データファイルに挿入されたコメントを表示する
SGR (Select Graphic Rendition) 部分文字列。

.TP
.B H=
.\"O SGR substring for percentage values greater than or equal to 75%.
割合が 75% 以上の場合の SGR 部分文字列。

.TP
.B I=
.\"O SGR substring for item names or values (eg. network interfaces, CPU number...)
アイテム名または値 (例、ネットワークインタフェース、CPU 番号など) を表示する SGR 部分文字列。

.TP
.B M=
.\"O SGR substring for percentage values in the range from 50% to 75%.
割合が 50% から 75% の場合の SGR 部分文字列。

.TP
.B N=
.\"O SGR substring for non-zero statistics values.
0 以外の統計値を表示する SGR 部分文字列。

.TP
.B R=
.\"O SGR substring for restart messages.
リスタートメッセージを表示する SGR 部分文字列。

.TP
.B Z=
.\"O SGR substring for zero values.
0 を表示する SGR 部分文字列。
.RE

.IP S_TIME_DEF_TIME
.\"O If this variable exists and its value is
.\"O .B UTC
.\"O then
.\"O .B sar
.\"O will save its data in UTC time (data will still be displayed in local time).
この環境変数が存在し、かつ値が
.B UTC
の場合、
.B sar
はデータを UTC 時間で保存する (一方でデータはローカル時間で表示される)。
.\"O .B sar
.\"O will also use UTC time instead of local time to determine the current daily
.\"O data file located in the
.\"O .IR /var/log/sa
.\"O directory. This variable may be useful for servers with users located across
.\"O several timezones.
.B sar
は
.I /var/log/sa
ディレクトリにある現在の日次データファイルを決定するために、
ローカル時間でなく、UTC 時間を使う。

.IP S_TIME_FORMAT
.\"O If this variable exists and its value is
.\"O .B ISO
.\"O then the current locale will be ignored when printing the date in the report header.
この環境変数が存在し、かつ値が
.B ISO
の場合、レポートのヘッダの日付を表示する際に、現在のロケールを無視する。
.\"O The
.\"O .B sar
.\"O command will use the ISO 8601 format (YYYY-MM-DD) instead.
代わりに、
.B sar
コマンドは ISO 8601 フォーマット (YYYY-MM-DD) を使う。
.\"O The timestamp will also be compliant with ISO 8601 format.
タイムスタンプも ISO 8601 フォーマットに従う。
.\"O .SH EXAMPLES
.SH 例
.B sar -u 2 5
.RS
.\"O Report CPU utilization for each 2 seconds. 5 lines are displayed.
CPU 利用率を 2 秒毎に 5 行表示する。
.RE

.B sar -I 14 -o int14.file 2 10
.RS
.\"O Report statistics on IRQ 14 for each 2 seconds. 10 lines are displayed.
IRQ 14 の統計を 2 秒毎に 10 行表示する。
.\"O Data are stored in a file called
.\"O .IR int14.file .
データはファイル
.I int14.file
に格納される。
.RE

.B sar -r -n DEV -f /var/log/sa/sa16
.RS
.\"O Display memory and network statistics saved in daily data file 'sa16'.
日次データファイル 'sa16' に保存された
メモリとネットワークの統計を表示する。
.RE

.B sar -A
.RS
.\"O Display all the statistics saved in current daily data file.
現在の日次データファイルに保存されたすべての統計を表示する。
.\"O .SH BUGS
.SH バグ
.\"O .I /proc
.\"O filesystem must be mounted for the
.\"O .B sar
.\"O command to work.
.B sar
コマンドが動作するためには、
.I /proc
ファイルシステムがマウントされていなければならない。

.\"O All the statistics are not necessarily available, depending on the kernel version used.
.\"O .B sar
.\"O assumes that you are using at least a 2.6 kernel.
使用しているカーネルによっては、すべての統計が利用可能な訳ではない。
.B sar
は少なくとも 2.6 カーネルを使っていることを仮定している。
.\"O .SH FILES
.SH ファイル
.I /var/log/sa/saDD
.br
.I /var/log/sa/saYYYYMMDD
.RS
.\"O The standard system activity daily data files and their default location.
.\"O YYYY stands for the current year, MM for the current month and DD for the
.\"O current day.
標準システム活性度日次データファイルとデフォルトの場所。
YYYY は現在の年、MM は月、DD は日である。

.RE
.\"O .I /proc
.\"O and
.\"O .I /sys
.\"O contain various files with system statistics.
.I /proc
と
.I /sys
には、システム統計の様々なファイルが含まれる。
.\"O .SH AUTHOR
.SH 著者
Sebastien Godard (sysstat <at> orange.fr)
.\"O .SH SEE ALSO
.SH 関連項目
.BR sadc (8),
.BR sa1 (8),
.BR sa2 (8),
.BR sadf (1),
.BR sysstat (5),
.BR pidstat (1),
.BR mpstat (1),
.BR iostat (1),
.BR vmstat (8)

.I https://github.com/sysstat/sysstat

.I http://pagesperso-orange.fr/sebastien.godard/
