.\" Man page for man-recode
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2019 Colin Watson <cjwatson@debian.org>
.\"
.\" You may distribute under the terms of the GNU General Public
.\" License as specified in the file COPYING that comes with the
.\" man-db distribution.
.pc
.TH MAN-RECODE 1 "2019-10-23" "2.9.0" "Manual pager utils"
.SH NAME
man-recode \- convert manual pages to another encoding
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B man-recode
.B \-t
.I to-code
{\|\fB\-\-suffix=\fIsuffix\/\fR\||\|\c
.BR \-\-in\-place \|}
.RB [\| \-dqhV \|]
.RI [\| filename \|]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B man-recode
converts multiple manual pages from one encoding to another, guessing the
appropriate input encoding for each one.
It is useful when permanently recoding pages written in legacy character
sets, or in build systems that need to recode a set of pages to a single
common encoding (usually UTF\-8) for installation.
When converting many manual pages, this program is much faster than running
.B man \-\-recode
or
.B manconv
on each page.
.PP
If an encoding declaration is found on the first line of a manual page, then
that declaration is used as the input encoding for that page.
Failing that, the input encoding is guessed based on the file name.
.PP
Encoding declarations have the following form:
.PP
.RS
.nf
\&\(aq\e" \-*\- coding: UTF\-8 \-*\-
.fi
.RE
.PP
or (if manual page preprocessors are also to be declared):
.PP
.RS
.nf
\&\(aq\e" t \-*\- coding: ISO\-8859\-1 \-*\-
.fi
.RE
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-t\fR \fIencoding\/\fR, \fB\-\-to\-code=\fIencoding\fR
Convert manual pages to
.IR encoding .
.TP
\fB\-\-suffix=\fIsuffix\fR
Form each output file name by appending
.IR suffix
to the input file name, after removing any compression extension.
.TP
.B \-\-in\-place
Overwrite each input file with the output, after removing any compression
extension.
.TP
.BR \-q ", " \-\-quiet
Do not issue error messages when the page cannot be converted.
.TP
.BR \-d ", " \-\-debug
Print debugging information.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Print a help message and exit.
.TP
.BR \-V ", " \-\-version
Display version information.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR iconv (1),
.IR man (1),
.IR manconv (1)
.SH AUTHOR
.nf
Colin Watson (cjwatson@debian.org).
.fi
