.\" Copyright (c) 1980, 1989, 1991 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)fstab.5	6.5 (Berkeley) 5/10/91
.\"
.\" Japanese Version Copyright (c) 1997-1999 ISHIOKA Takashi and NAKANO Takeo
.\"         all rights reserved.
.\" Translated Mon Sep  8 14:02:18 1997
.\"         by ISHIOKA Takashi       
.\" Thu Feb  5 10:31:23 1998: follow man-pages 1.18
.\" Mon Feb  9 15:16:13 1998: correction
.\" Updated Sat 23 Oct by NAKANO Takeo <nakano@apm.seikei.ac.jp>
.\" Updated Mon Apr  9 20:43:51 JST 2001
.\"         by Yuichi SATO <sato@complex.eng.hokudai.ac.jp>
.\" Updated Sat Aug 18 10:01:58 JST 2001 by Yuichi SATO
.\" Updated & Modified Sun Mar  2 16:58:13 JST 2003
.\"         by Yuichi SATO <ysato444@yahoo.co.jp>
.\" Updated & Modified Fri May  6 04:29:45 JST 2005 by Yuichi SATO
.\" Updated & Modified Sat Aug  3 08:24:33 JST 2019
.\"         by Yuichi SATO <ysato444@ybb.ne.jp>
.\"
.TH FSTAB 5 "February 2015" "util-linux" "File Formats"
.\"O .SH NAME
.SH 名前
.\"O fstab \- static information about the filesystems
fstab \- ファイルシステムの静的な情報
.\"O .SH SYNOPSIS
.SH 書式
.I /etc/fstab
.\"O .SH DESCRIPTION
.SH 説明
.\"O The file
.\"O .B fstab
.\"O contains descriptive information about the filesystems the system can mount.
このファイル
.B fstab
にはシステムでマウントできるファイルシステムに関する情報が記述されている。
.\"O .B fstab
.\"O is only read by programs, and not written; it is the duty of the system
.\"O administrator to properly create and maintain this file.  The order of records in
.\"O .B fstab
.\"O is important because
.\"O .BR fsck (8),
.\"O .BR mount (8),
.\"O and
.\"O .BR umount (8)
.\"O sequentially iterate through
.\"O .B fstab
.\"O doing their thing.
.B fstab
ファイルはプログラムによって読みこまれるだけで書き込まれることはない。
このファイルを適切に作り、保守するのはシステム管理者の責任である。
.BR fsck (8),
.BR mount (8),
.BR umount (8)
などのプログラムは、
.B fstab
ファイルを先頭から順に読み込んで処理するため、
.B fstab
に記述されるレコード (ファイルシステム) の順序は重要である。

.\"O Each filesystem is described on a separate line.
.\"O Fields on each line are separated by tabs or spaces.
.\"O Lines starting with '#' are comments.  Blank lines are ignored.
それぞれのファイルシステムは一行単位で記述され、
各行のフィールドは TAB 文字もしくは空白 (spaces) で区切られる。
\&'#' で始まる行はコメントである。
空行は無視される。
.PP
.\"O The following is a typical example of an
.\"O .B fstab
.\"O entry:
以下は典型的な
.B fstab
のエントリの例である:
.sp
.RS 7
LABEL=t-home2   /home      ext4    defaults,auto_da_alloc      0  2
.RE

.\"O .B The first field
.B 最初のフィールド
.RI ( fs_spec ).
.RS
.\"O This field describes the block special device or
.\"O remote filesystem to be mounted.

.\"O This field describes the block special device, remote filesystem or filesystem
.\"O image for loop device to be mounted or swap file or swap partition to be enabled.

このフィールドは、マウントしたいブロックスペシャルデバイス、
リモートファイルシステム、ループデバイスのファイルシステムイメージ、
または、有効にしたいスワップファイル、スワップパーティションを
記述する。
.LP
.\"O For ordinary mounts, it will hold (a link to) a block special
.\"O device node (as created by
.\"O .BR mknod (2))
.\"O for the device to be mounted, like `/dev/cdrom' or `/dev/sdb7'.
.\"O For NFS mounts, this field is <host>:<dir>, e.g., `knuth.aeb.nl:/'.
通常のマウントでは、これはマウントされるブロックスペシャルデバイス
ノード (またはそれへのリンク) である。
これは
.BR mknod (2)
によって作成される。
例えば `/dev/cdrom' や `/dev/sdb7' といったものになる。
NFS マウントの場合は <host>:<dir> という書式になる。
例えば `knuth.aeb.nl:/' などである。
.\"O For filesystems with no storage, any string can be used, and will show up in
.\"O .BR df (1)
.\"O output, for example.  Typical usage is `proc' for procfs; `mem', `none',
.\"O or `tmpfs' for tmpfs.  Other special filesystems, like udev and sysfs,
.\"O are typically not listed in
.\"O .BR fstab .
ストレージのないファイルシステムについて、任意の文字列を使うことが
できて、例えば
.BR df (1)
の出力に表示される。
通常、procfs には `proc'、 tmpfs には `mem', `none', `tmpfs' が使われる。
udev や sysfs といったその他の特殊なファイルシステムは、通常、
.BR fstab
にはリストされない。
.LP
.\"O LABEL=<label> or UUID=<uuid> may be given instead of a device name.
.\"O This is the recommended method, as device names are often a coincidence
.\"O of hardware detection order, and can change when other disks are added or removed.
.\"O For example, `LABEL=Boot' or `UUID=3e6be9de\%-8139\%-11d1\%-9106\%-a43f08d823a6'.
.\"O (Use a filesystem-specific tool like
.\"O .BR e2label (8),
.\"O .BR xfs_admin (8),
.\"O or
.\"O .BR fatlabel (8)
.\"O to set LABELs on filesystems).
デバイス名の代わりに、LABEL=<label> または UUID=<uuid> を指定することができる。
これは、ディスクを追加または削除した際に、デバイス名が
ハードウェアの検知順になって、変更される場合に、
推奨される方法である。
例:`LABEL=Boot' または `UUID=3e6be9de\%-8139\%-11d1\%-9106\%-a43f08d823a6'。
(ファイルシステムの LABEL を設定するには、
.BR e2label (8),
.BR xfs_admin (8),
.BR fatlabel (8)
のようなファイルシステム独自のツールを使うこと)。

.\"O It's also possible to use PARTUUID= and PARTLABEL=. These partitions identifiers
.\"O are supported for example for GUID Partition Table (GPT).
.\"Osato:
.\"Osato: for example の訳は必要ないかも。
.\"Osato: 
PARTUUID= と PARTLABEL= を使うこともできる。
これらのパーティション識別子は、例えば、GUID パーティションテーブル (GPT) をサポートする。

.\"O See
.\"O .BR mount (8),
.\"O .BR blkid (8)
.\"O or
.\"O .BR lsblk (8)
.\"O for more details about device identifiers.
デバイス識別子の詳細は、
.BR mount (8),
.BR blkid (8)
.BR lsblk (8)
を参照すること。

.LP
.\"O Note that
.\"O .BR mount (8)
.\"O uses UUIDs as strings. The string representation of the UUID should be based on
.\"O lower case characters.
.BR mount (8)
は UUID を文字列として使う。
UUID の文字列表現は小文字をベースとするべきである。
.RE

.\"O .B The second field
.B 2 番目のフィールド
.RI ( fs_file ).
.RS
.\"O This field describes the mount point (target) for the filesystem.  For swap partitions, this
.\"O field should be specified as `none'. If the name of the mount point
.\"O contains spaces or tabs these can be escaped as `\\040' and '\\011'
.\"O respectively.
このフィールドは、ファイルシステムのマウントポイントを記述する。
スワップパーティションの場合、
このフィールドは `none' と明記する必要がある。
マウントポイントに含まれている空白とタブは、`\\040' と '\\011' のようにエスケープできる。
.RE

.\"O .B The third field
.B 3 番目のフィールド
.RI ( fs_vfstype ).
.RS
.\"O This field describes the type of the filesystem.  Linux supports many
.\"O filesystem types: ext4, xfs, btrfs, f2fs, vfat, ntfs, hfsplus,
.\"O tmpfs, sysfs, proc, iso9660, udf, squashfs, nfs, cifs, and many more.
.\"O For more details, see
.\"O .BR mount (8).
このフィールドは、ファイルシステムのタイプを記述する。
Linux では
ext4, xfs, btrfs, f2fs, vfat, ntfs, hfsplus,
tmpfs, sysfs, proc, iso9660, udf, squashfs, nfs, cifs
などのファイルシステムタイプをサポートする。
詳細は
.BR mount (8)
を参照すること。

.\"O An entry
.\"O .I swap
.\"O denotes a file or partition to be used
.\"O for swapping, cf.\&
.\"O .BR swapon (8).
エントリ
.I swap
はスワップに使われるファイルまたはパーティションを表す。
.BR swapon (8)
を参照。
.\"O An entry
.\"O .I none
.\"O is useful for bind or move mounts.
mount 先をバインドしたり移動したりするために、エントリ
.I none
が役に立つ。

.\"O More than one type may be specified in a comma-separated list.
1 つ以上のファイルシステムタイプをカンマ区切りのリストで指定できる。

.\"O .BR mount (8)
.\"O and
.\"O .BR umount (8)
.\"O support filesystem
.\"O .IR subtypes .
.BR mount (8)
と
.BR umount (8)
はファイルシステム
.I subtype
をサポートする。
.\"O The subtype is defined by '.subtype' suffix.  For
.\"O example 'fuse.sshfs'. It's recommended to use subtype notation rather than add
.\"O any prefix to the first fstab field (for example 'sshfs#example.com' is
.\"O deprecated).
サブタイプは '.subtype' サフィックスで定義される。
例えば 'fuse.sshfs' である。
最初の fstab フィールドにプレフィックスを追加するより、
サブタイプの記法を使う方が推奨される
(例えば、 'sshfs#example.com' という記法は廃止されている)。
.RE

.\"O .B The fourth field
.B 4 番目のフィールド
.RI ( fs_mntops ).
.RS
.\"O This field describes the mount options associated with the filesystem.
このフィールドは、ファイルシステム毎のマウントオプションを記述する。

.\"O It is formatted as a comma-separated list of options.
.\"O It contains at least the type of mount
.\"O .RB ( ro
.\"O or
.\"O .BR rw ),
.\"O plus any additional options appropriate to the filesystem
.\"O type (including performance-tuning options).
.\"O For details, see
.\"O .BR mount (8)
.\"O or
.\"O .BR swapon (8).
これはカンマで区切られたオプションのリストである。
少なくともマウントのタイプ
.RB ( ro
または
.BR rw )
を書く必要がある。
加えて (パフォーマンスチューニングオプションを含む)
ファイルシステムのタイプに応じた
適切なオプションが書かれていることが多い。
詳細は
.BR mount (8)
または
.BR swapon (8)
を参照のこと。

.\"O Basic filesystem-independent options are:
基本的なファイルシステムに依存しないオプションは以下のとおり:
.TP
.B defaults
.\"O use default options: rw, suid, dev, exec, auto, nouser, and async.
デフォルトのオプション rw, suid, dev, exec, auto, nouser, async を使う。
.TP
.B noauto
.\"O do not mount when "mount \-a" is given (e.g., at boot time)
"mount \-a" を実行したとき (ブート時など) にマウントしない。
.TP
.B user
.\"O allow a user to mount
ユーザにマウントを許可する。
.TP
.B owner
.\"O allow device owner to mount
デバイスの所有者にマウントを許可する。
.TP
.\"O .B comment
.\"O or
.\"O .B x-<name>
.BR comment " または " x-<name>
.\"O for use by fstab-maintaining programs
fstab 管理プログラムで使用するためにある。
.TP
.B nofail
.\"O do not report errors for this device if it does not exist.
このデバイスが存在しない場合に、エラーを報告しない。
.RE

.\"O .B The fifth field
.B 5 番目のフィールド
.RI ( fs_freq ).
.RS
.\"O This field is used by
.\"O .BR dump (8)
.\"O to determine which filesystems need to be dumped.
このフィールドは、これらのファイルシステムを
.BR dump (8)
コマンドが
ダンプする必要があるかを決定するために用いられる。
.\"O Defaults to zero (don't dump) if not present.
存在しない場合のデフォルトは 0 (dump しない) である。
.RE

.\"O .B The sixth field
.B 6 番目のフィールド
.RI ( fs_passno ).
.RS
.\"O This field is used by
.\"O .BR fsck (8)
.\"O to determine the order in which filesystem checks are done at
.\"O boot time.  The root filesystem should be specified with a
.\"O .I fs_passno
.\"O of 1.  Other filesystems should have a
.\"O .I fs_passno
.\"O of 2.  Filesystems within a drive will be checked sequentially, but
.\"O filesystems on different drives will be checked at the same time to utilize
.\"O parallelism available in the hardware.
このフィールドは、
.BR fsck (8)
プログラムが用い、
ブート時にファイルシステムのチェックを実行する順序を
決定するために参照される。
ルートファイルシステムは 
.I fs_passno
を 1 と明記する必要があり、
その他のパーティションは、
.I fs_passno
を 2 とする必要がある。
1 つのドライブ中のファイルシステムは順番にチェックされる。
しかし、異なるドライブのファイルシステムは
ハードウェアの並列性を役立たせる為に
同時にチェックされる。
.\"O Defaults to zero (don't fsck) if not present.
存在しない場合のデフォルトは 0 (fsck しない) である。
.RE

.\"O .SH FILES
.SH ファイル
.IR /etc/fstab ,
.I <fstab.h>

.\"O .SH NOTES
.SH 注意
.\"O The proper way to read records from
.\"O .B fstab
.\"O is to use the routines
.\"O .BR getmntent (3)
.\"O or
.\"O .BR libmount .
.B fstab
のレコードを読む正式な方法は、
.BR getmntent (3)
または
.B libmount
のルーチンを使うことである。

.\"O The keyword
.\"O .B ignore
.\"O as a filesystem type (3rd field) is no longer supported by the pure
.\"O libmount based mount utility (since util-linux v2.22).
キーワード
.B ignore
はファイルシステムタイプ (3 番目のフィールド) として、
純粋な libmount ベースのマウントユーティリティでは
(util-linux v2.22 以降では) サポートされていない。

.\"O .SH HISTORY
.SH 履歴
.\"O The ancestor of this
.\"O .B fstab
.\"O file format appeared in 4.0BSD.
この
.B fstab
ファイルフォーマットの原型は 4.0BSD で導入された。
.\"O .\" But without comment convention, and options and vfs_type.
.\"O .\" Instead there was a type rw/ro/rq/sw/xx, where xx is the present 'ignore'.
.\" ただし、コメントの方法、オプション、vfs_type は無かった。
.\" 代わりにタイプ rw/ro/rq/sw/xx があった。ここで xx は 'ignore' を表す。
.\"O .SH SEE ALSO
.SH 関連項目
.BR getmntent (3),
.BR fs (5),
.BR findmnt (8),
.BR mount (8),
.BR swapon (8)
.\"O .SH AVAILABILITY
.SH 入手方法
.\"O This man page is part of the util-linux package and is available from
.\"O https://www.kernel.org/pub/linux/utils/util-linux/.
この man ページは、util-linux パッケージの一部であり、
https://www.kernel.org/pub/linux/utils/util-linux/
から入手できる。
