.\" Man page for accessdb
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1998 Fabrizio Polacco <fpolacco@debian.org
.\"
.\" You may distribute under the terms of the GNU General Public
.\" License as specified in the file COPYING that comes with the
.\" man-db distribution.
.\"
.\" Tue, 24 Feb 1998 18:18:36 +0200
.\"
.\" Japanese Version Copyright (c) 1998 NAKANO Takeo all rights reserved.
.\" Translated Fri 25 Sep 1998 by NAKANO Takeo <nakano@apm.seikei.ac.jp>
.\" Modified Sun 6 Dec 1998 by NAKANO Takeo <nakano@apm.seikei.ac.jp>
.\" Updated & Modified Thu Jul  2 16:30:33 JST 2020
.\"         by Yuichi SATO <ysato444@ybb.ne.jp>
.\"
.pc
.TH ACCESSDB 8 "2019-10-23" "2.9.0" "Manual pager utils"
.\"O .SH NAME
.SH 名前
.\"O accessdb \- dumps the content of a man-db database in a human readable
.\"O format
accessdb \- man-db データベースの内容を、人間に可読な形式でダンプする。
.\"O .SH SYNOPSIS
.SH 書式
.B /usr/sbin/accessdb
.RB [\| \-d?V \|]
.RI [ <index-file> ]
.\"O .SH DESCRIPTION
.SH 説明
.\"O .B accessdb
.\"O will output the data contained within a man-db database in a
.\"O human readable form.
.B accessdb
は man_db データベースに含まれているデータを人間に可読なかたちで出力する。
.\"O By default, it will dump the data from
.\"O .B /var/cache/man/index.<db-type>,
.\"O where <db-type> is dependent on the database library in use.
デフォルトでは、
.B /var/cache/man/index.<db-type>
のデータをダンプする。
<db-type> は用いているデータベースライブラリに依存する。

.\"O Supplying an argument to accessdb will override this default.
accessdb に引き数を渡すと、このデフォルトは上書きされる。
.\"O .SH OPTIONS
.SH オプション
.TP
.BR \-d ", " \-\-debug
.\"O Print debugging information.
デバッグ情報を表示する。
.TP
.BR \-? ", " \-\-help
.\"O Print a help message and exit.
ヘルプメッセージを表示して、終了する。
.TP
.BR \-\-usage
.\"O Print a short usage message and exit.
簡単な使用法のメッセージを表示して、終了する。
.TP
.BR \-V ", " \-\-version
.\"O Display version information.
バージョン情報を表示する。
.\"O .SH AUTHOR
.SH 著者
.nf
Wilf.\& (G.Wilford@ee.surrey.ac.uk).
Fabrizio Polacco (fpolacco@debian.org).
Colin Watson (cjwatson@debian.org).
.fi
