'\" t
.\" Man page for mandb
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 1994, 1995, Graeme W. Wilford. (Wilf.)
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2019 Colin Watson.
.\"
.\" You may distribute under the terms of the GNU General Public
.\" License as specified in the file COPYING that comes with the
.\" man-db distribution.
.\"
.\" Tue Apr 26 12:56:44 BST 1994  Wilf. (G.Wilford@ee.surrey.ac.uk)
.\"
.\" Japanese Version Copyright (c) 1998 NAKANO Takeo all rights reserved.
.\" Translated Fri 25 Sep 1998 by NAKANO Takeo <nakano@apm.seikei.ac.jp>
.\" Modified Sun 6 Dec 1998 by NAKANO Takeo <nakano@apm.seikei.ac.jp>
.\"
.\"WORD:        hierarchy       階層
.\"
.pc
.TH MANDB 8 "2019-10-23" "2.9.0" "Manual pager utils"
.\"O .SH NAME
.SH 名前
.\"O mandb \- create or update the manual page index caches
mandb \- マニュアルページのインデックスキャッシュを作成・更新する
.\"O .SH SYNOPSIS
.SH 書式
.B mandb
.RB [\| \-dqsucpt?V \|]
.RB [\| \-C
.IR file \|]
.RI [\| manpath \|]
.br
.B mandb
.RB [\| \-dqsut \|]
.RB [\| \-C
.IR file \|]
.B \-f
.IR filename \ .\|.\|.
.\"O .SH DESCRIPTION
.SH 説明
.\"O .B mandb
.\"O is used to initialise or manually update
.\"O .B index
.\"O database caches.
.B mandb
はデータベースのキャッシュ
.B index
を初期化したり、手動で更新するときに用いる。
.\"O The caches contain information relevant to the current state of the manual
.\"O page system and the information stored within them is used by the man-db
.\"O utilities to enhance their speed and functionality.
キャッシュには、現在のマニュアルページシステムに関する情報が含まれている。
この情報は man-db ユーティリティ群によって用いられ、速度と機能の向上に
貢献している。

.\"O When creating or updating an
.\"O .BR index ,
.\"O .B mandb
.\"O will warn of bad ROFF .so requests, bogus manual page filenames and
.\"O manual pages from which the
.\"O .B whatis
.\"O cannot be parsed.
.B index
が生成・更新されるとき、
.B mandb
は ROFF の .so 命令の間違いや、マニュアルページのファイル名の重複、
.B whatis
によって情報を抽出できないマニュアルページなどに対して警告を発する。

.\"O Supplying
.\"O .B mandb
.\"O with an optional colon-delimited path will override the internal system
.\"O manual page hierarchy search path, determined from information found within
.\"O the man-db configuration file.
.B mandb
に、コロンで区切ったパスのリストを与えることもできる。
これは man-db 設定ファイルの情報から決定された、
内部のシステムのマニュアルページ階層検索パスを上書きする。
.\"O .SH "DATABASE CACHES"
.SH データベースキャッシュ
.\"O .B mandb
.\"O can be compiled with support for any one of the following database types.
.B mandb
は以下のデータベース形式のいずれか一つをサポートするように
コンパイルすることができる。

.TS
tab (@);
l lw(20m) l l.
.\"O Name@Type@Async@Filename
名前@形式@非同期@ファイル名
_
Berkeley db@T{
.\"O Binary tree
二分木
.\"O T}@Yes@\fIindex.bt\fR
T}@可@\fIindex.bt\fR
GNU gdbm@T{
.\"O Hashed
ハッシュ
.\"O T}@Yes@\fIindex.db\fR
T}@可@\fIindex.db\fR
UNIX ndbm@T{
.\"O Hashed
ハッシュ
.\"O T}@No@\fIindex.(dir|pag)\fR
T}@不可@\fIindex.(dir|pag)\fR
.TE

.\"O Those database types that support asynchronous updates provide enhanced
.\"O speed at the cost of possible corruption in the event of unusual
.\"O termination.
これらのデータベース形式のうち非同期な更新ができるものでは、
速度は向上するが、予期しない中断が起こったときにデータが壊れるかも
しれない。
.\"O In an unusual case where this has occurred, it may be necessary to rerun
.\"O .B mandb
.\"O with the
.\"O .B \-c
.\"O option to re-create the databases from scratch.
このような破壊が起こったときには、
.B mandb
を
.B \-c
オプションをつけて実行し、データベースを再構成しなおす必要があるだろう。
.\"O .SH OPTIONS
.SH オプション
.TP
.BR \-d ", " \-\-debug
.\"O Print debugging information.
デバッグ情報を表示する。
.TP
.BR \-q ", " \-\-quiet
.\"O Produce no warnings.
警告を発しない。
.TP
.BR \-s ", " \-\-no-straycats
.\"O Do not spend time looking for or adding information to the databases
.\"O regarding stray cats.
stray cat (訳注: おそらく対応する roff ソースのない cat ページのこと
でしょう) を探したり、それに関する情報をデータに追加しようとは試みない。
.TP
.BR \-p ", " \-\-no-purge
Do not spend time checking for deleted manual pages and purging them from
the databases.
.TP
.BR \-c ", " \-\-create
.\"O By default,
.\"O .B mandb
.\"O will try to update any previously created databases.
デフォルトでは、
.B mandb
は以前に生成されたデータベースを更新しようとする。
.\"O If a database does not exist, it will create it.
データベースが存在しない場合には、始めから生成する。
.\"O This option forces
.\"O .B mandb
.\"O to delete previous databases and re-create them from scratch, and implies
.\"O .B \-\-no-purge.
このオプションを指定すると、
.B mandb
は以前のデータベースを消去し、データベースをゼロから再構成する。
これは暗黙のうちに
.B \-\-no-purge
を指定する。
.\"O This may be necessary if a database becomes corrupt or if a new database
.\"O storage scheme is introduced in the future.
これはデータベースが壊れた場合や、将来データベースの管理方法が
新しいものに変わったときなどに必要となろう。
.TP
.BR \-u ", " \-\-user-db
.\"O Create user databases only, even with write permissions necessary to create
.\"O system databases.
ユーザーのデータベースしか生成しない。
システムのデータベースを作成する権限があっても、生成しない。
.TP
.BR \-t ", " \-\-test
Perform correctness checks on manual pages in the hierarchy search path.
With this option,
.B mandb
will not alter existing databases.
.TP
.BR \-f ", " \-\-filename
Update only the entries for the given filename.
This option is not for general use; it is used internally by
.B man
when it has been compiled with the
.B MAN_DB_UPDATES
option and finds that a page is out of date.
It implies
.B \-p
and disables
.B \-c
and
.BR \-s .
.TP
.BI \-C\  file \fR,\ \fB\-\-config\-file= file
Use this user configuration file rather than the default of
.IR ~/.manpath .
.TP
.BR \-? ", " \-\-help
.\"O Show the usage message, then exit.
使用法のメッセージを表示して、終了する。
.TP
.BR \-\-usage
.\"O Print a short usage message and exit.
簡単な使用法のメッセージを表示して、終了する。
.TP
.BR \-V ", " \-\-version
.\"O Show the version, then exit.
バージョン情報を表示して、終了する。
.\"O .SH "EXIT STATUS"
.SH 返り値
.TP
.B 0
.\"O Successful program execution.
プログラムの実行に成功した。
.TP
.B 1
.\"O Usage, syntax, or configuration file error.
使用法、文法、設定ファイルのいずれかにエラーがある。
.TP
.B 2
.\"O Operational error.
実行時エラー。
.TP
.B 3
.\"O A child process failed.
子プロセスが失敗した。
.\"O .SH DIAGNOSTICS
.SH 診断メッセージ
.\"O The following warning messages can be emitted during database building.
データベースの構築中に、以下のような警告メッセージが出力されることがある。
.TP
.B <filename>: whatis parse for page(sec) failed
.\"O An attempt to extract whatis line(s) from the given <filename> failed.
.\"O This is usually due to a poorly written manual page, but if many such
.\"O messages are emitted it is likely that the system contains non-standard
.\"O manual pages which are incompatible with the man-db whatis parser.
<filename> から whatis に必要な行を取り出すのに失敗した。
これは通常マニュアルページの書き方が悪いからであることが多いが、
このようなメッセージが多く出るようであれば、そのシステムには man-db の
whatis パーサーと互換性のない、非標準的なマニュアルページが含まれている
可能性が高い。
See the
.B WHATIS PARSING
section in
.BR lexgrog (1)
for more information.
.TP
.B <filename>: is a dangling symlink
.\"O <filename> does not exist but is referenced by a symbolic link.
.\"O Further diagnostics are usually emitted to identify the <filename> of the
.\"O offending link.
<filename> がシンボリックリンクによって参照されているが、存在していない。
通常、<filename> を間違ってリンク対象としてしまっているリンク元に
関する診断メッセージが同時に表示される。
.TP
.B <filename>: bad symlink or ROFF `.so' request
.\"O <filename> is either a symbolic link to, or contains a ROFF include
.\"O request to, a non existent file.
<filename> はシンボリックリンクであるか、ROFF のインクルード命令を含んでいるが、
リンク先・読み込み先のファイルが存在していない。
.TP
.B <filename>: ignoring bogus filename
.\"O The <filename> may or may not be a valid manual page but its name is
.\"O invalid.
<filename> は正しい (あるいは正しくない) マニュアルページであるが、
名前が正しくない。
.\"O This is usually due to a manual page with sectional extension <x> being put
.\"O in manual page section <y>.
通常これは、セクション拡張子 <x> のファイルが、
マニュアルページのセクション <y> に置かれている場合に起こる。
.TP
.B <filename_mask>: competing extensions
.\"O The wildcard <filename_mask> is not unique.
ワイルドカード <filename_mask> がユニークな名前でない。
.\"O This is usually caused by the existence of both a compressed and
.\"O uncompressed version of the same manual page.
これは通常、同じマニュアルページに対して、圧縮されたバージョンと
されていないバージョンが共存している場合に起こる。
.\"O All but the most recent are ignored.
最新のもの以外は無視される。
.\"O .SH FILES
.SH ファイル
.TP
.I /etc/man_db.conf
.\"O man-db configuration file.
man-db の設定ファイル。
.TP
.I /var/cache/man/index.(bt|db|dir|pag)
An FHS compliant global
.I index
database cache.
.PP
Older locations for the database cache included:
.TP
.I /usr/man/index.(bt|db|dir|pag)
.\"O A traditional global
.\"O .I index
.\"O database cache.
従来形式のグローバルな
.I index
データベースキャッシュ。
.TP
.I /var/catman/index.(bt|db|dir|pag)
.\"O An alternate or FSSTND
.\"O compliant global
.\"O .I index
.\"O database cache.
新しい FSSTND 準拠の
.I index
データベースキャッシュ。
.\"O .SH "SEE ALSO"
.SH 関連項目
.BR lexgrog (1),
.BR man (1),
.BR manpath (5),
.BR catman (8)
.PP
The
.B "WHATIS PARSING"
section formerly in this manual page is now part of
.BR lexgrog (1).
.\"O .SH AUTHOR
.SH 著者
.nf
Wilf.\& (G.Wilford@ee.surrey.ac.uk).
Fabrizio Polacco (fpolacco@debian.org).
Colin Watson (cjwatson@debian.org).
.fi
