.\"
.\" Japanese Version Copyright (c) 2019 Yuichi SATO
.\"         all rights reserved.
.\" Translated Tue Jul  9 22:27:24 JST 2019
.\"         by Yuichi SATO <ysato444@ybb.ne.jp>
.\"
.TH SYSSTAT 5 "JULY 2018" Linux "Linux User's Manual" -*- nroff -*-
.\"O .SH NAME
.SH 名前
.\"O sysstat \- sysstat configuration file.
sysstat \- sysstat 設定ファイル。
.\"O .SH DESCRIPTION
.SH 説明
.\"O This file is read by
.\"O .BR sa1 (8)
.\"O and
.\"O .BR sa2 (8)
.\"O shell scripts from the sysstat's set of tools.
このファイルは
sysstat のツールセットである
.BR sa1 (8)
と
.BR sa2 (8)
によって読まれる。
.\"O It consists of a sequence of shell variable assignments used to
.\"O configure sysstat logging.
このファイルは一連のシェル変数の割り当てで構成されており、
sysstat のロギングを設定する。
.\"O The variables and their meanings are:
変数と意味は以下のとおり。
.TP
.B COMPRESSAFTER
.\"O Number of days after which daily data files are to be compressed.
.\"O The compression program is given in the
.\"O .B ZIP
.\"O variable.
日次データファイルを何日後に圧縮するかを指定する。
圧縮プログラムは
.B ZIP
変数で指定する。

.TP
.B HISTORY
.\"O The number of days during which a daily data file or a report
.\"O should be kept. Data files or reports older than this number of
.\"O days will be removed by the
.\"O .BR sa2 (8)
.\"O shell script.
日次データファイルまたはレポートを何日保持するかを指定する。
この日数より古い日次ファイルとレポートは、
.BR sa2 (8)
シェルスクリプトによって削除される。
.\"O Data files and reports are normally saved in the /var/log/sa directory,
.\"O under the name
.\"O .IR saDD
.\"O (for data files) or
.\"O .IR sarDD
.\"O (for reports), where the DD parameter indicates the current day.
データファイルとレポートは通常は /var/log/sa ディレクトリに保存され、
.I saDD
(データファイル) または
.I sarDD
(レポート) という名前になる。
ここで DD は現在の日である。

.\"O The number of files actually kept in the /var/log/sa directory may be
.\"O slightly higher than the
.\"O .B HISTORY
.\"O value due to the way the
.\"O .B sa2
.\"O script figures
.\"O out which files are to be removed (see below "How the
.\"O .BR sa2 (8)
.\"O script applies
.\"O .B HISTORY
.\"O value"). Using a value of 28 keeps a whole month's worth of data. If
.\"O you set
.\"O .B HISTORY
.\"O to a value greater than 28 then you should consider using
.\"O .BR sadc 's
.\"O option -D to prevent older data files from being overwritten (see
.\"O .BR sadc (8)
.\"O manual page). In this latter case data files are named
.\"O .IR saYYYYMMDD
.\"O and reports
.\"O .IR sarYYYYMMDD ,
.\"O where YYYY stands for the current year, MM for the
.\"O current month and DD for the current day.
/var/log/sa ディレクトリに保持されるファイル数は、
.B HISTORY
の値よりわずかに多い。
これは
.B sa2
スクリプトがどのファイルを削除するかを算出する方法による
(以下の
.RB 「 sa2 (8)
スクリプトが
.B HISTORY
値を適用する方法」を参照)。
値 28 を使うと、1 ヶ月全部のデータが保持される。
.B HISTORY
に 28 より大きい数を設定すると、
.B sadc
のオプション -D が古いファイルを上書きしないように考慮する必要がある
.RB ( sadc (8)
のマニュアルページを参照すること)。
後者の場合、データファイルは
.I saYYYYMMDD
で、レポートファイルは
.I sarYYYYMMDD
である。
ここで、YYYY は現在の年、MM は月、DD は日である。

.\"O How the
.\"O .BR sa2 (8)
.\"O script applies
.\"O .B HISTORY
.\"O value
.BR sa2 (8)
スクリプトが
.B HISTORY
値を適用する方法

.\"O The
.\"O .B sa2
.\"O script uses the "find" command with the "-mtime" option to figure
.\"O out which files are to be removed. The "find" command interprets this value
.\"O as "N 24 hour periods", ignoring any fractional part. This means that the
.\"O last modified time of a given sa[r]DD data or report file, using a
.\"O .B HISTORY
.\"O of 1, has to have been modified at least two days ago before it will be
.\"O removed. And for a
.\"O .B HISTORY
.\"O of 28 that would mean 29 days ago.
.B sa2
スクリプトは "find" コマンドを "-mtime" オプションを付けて使い、
どのファイルを削除するかを算出する。
"find" コマンドは、この値を "N × 24 時間" として解釈し、
小数部を無視する。
これは
.B HISTORY
が 1 の場合、削除される sa[r]DD データファイルまたは
レポートファイルの最終修正時刻が、
少なくとも 2 日前までという意味になる。
そして、
.B HISTORY
が 28 の場合、29 日前までとなる。

.\"O To figure out how a
.\"O .B HISTORY
.\"O of 28 is applied in practice, we need to
.\"O consider that the
.\"O .B sa2
.\"O script that issues the "find" command to remove the
.\"O old files typically runs just before mid-night on a given system, and since
.\"O the first record from
.\"O .B sadc
.\"O can also be written to the previous day's data file
.\"O (thereby moving its modification time up a bit), the
.\"O .B sa2
.\"O script will leave
.\"O 30 files untouched. So for a setting of 28, and counting the data file of
.\"O the current day, there will always be 31 files (or 30 files, depending on the
.\"O number of days in a month) in the /var/log/sa directory during the majority
.\"O of a given day.  E.g.:
.B HISTORY
が 28 の場合に実際にどのように適用されるかは、
.B sa2
が "find" コマンドを発行して、
システムの午前 0 時の直前に古いファイルを削除するかを考える必要がある。
.B sadc
の最初のレコードは前日のデータファイルに書かれる
(よって修正時刻は少しだけずれる) ので、
.B sa2
スクリプトは 30 個のファイルを触らずに残す。
そのため、28 に設定すると、
現在の日付のデータファイルをカウントし、指定した日の大部分で、
31 個のファイル (月の日数により 30 ファイル) が /var/log/sa ディレクトリに残る。

.\"O April 30th: 31 files (Apr 30th-1st, Mar 31th)
4月30日: 31 ファイル (3月31日、4月1日-30日)
.br
.\"O May 1st: 30 files (May 1st, Apr 30th-2nd)
5月1日: 30 ファイル (4月2日-30日、5月1日)

.\"O Yet we can note the following exceptions (as inspected at Noon of the given
.\"O day):
(指定した日の正午に調べられた場合) 以下の例外がある点に注意すること。

.\"O February 28th: 31 files (Feb 28th-1st, Jan 31st, 30th & 29th)
2月28日: 31 ファイル (1月29日-31日、2月1日-28日)
.br
.\"O March 1st: 30 files (Mar 1st, Feb 28th-2nd, Jan 31st & 30th)
3月1日: 30 ファイル (1月30日-31日、2月2日-28日、3月1日)
.br
.\"O March 2nd: 29 files (Mar 1st & 2nd, Feb 28th-3rd, Jan. 31st)
3月2日: 29 ファイル (1月31日、2月3日-28日、3月1日-2日)
.br
.\"O March 3rd: 28 files (Mar 1st-3rd, Feb 28th-4th)
3月3日: 28 ファイル (2月4日-28日、3月1日-3日)
.br
.\"O March 4th - March 28th: 28 files
3月4日-28日: 28 ファイル
.br
.\"O March 29th: 29 files
3月29日: 29 ファイル
.br
.\"O March 30th: 30 files
3月30日: 30 ファイル
.br
.\"O March 31st: 31 files
3月31日: 31 ファイル

.\"O (Determining the number of files in March on a leap year is left as an
.\"O exercise for the reader).
(閏年の 3 月にいくつのファイルが残るかは、読者への練習に取っておく。)

.\"O Things are simpler if you use the sa[r]YYYYMMDD name format.
名前フォーマット sa[r]YYYYMMDD を使った場合は、より単純である。
.\"O Apply the same logic as above in this case and you will find that there
.\"O are always
.\"O .B HISTORY
.\"O + 3 files in the
.\"O .IR /var/log/sa
.\"O directory during the majority of a given day.
上記を同じロジックを適用し、指定した日の大部分で、常に
.B HISTORY
+ 3 ファイルが
.I /var/log/sa
ディレクトリにあることが分かるだろう。

.TP
.B REPORTS
.\"O Set this variable to false to prevent the
.\"O .B sa2
.\"O script from generating reports (the
.\"O .IR sarDD
.\"O files).
.B sa2
スクリプトがレポート
.RI ( sarDD
ファイル) を生成しないようにするには、
この変数を false にすること。

.TP
.B SA_DIR
.\"O Directory where the standard system activity daily data and report files
.\"O are saved. Its default value is
.\"O .IR /var/log/sa .
標準システム活性度日次データファイルとレポートファイルが
保存されるディレクトリ。
デフォルト値は
.I /var/log/sa
である。

.TP
.B SADC_OPTIONS
.\"O Options that should be passed to
.\"O .BR sadc (8).
.BR sadc (8)
に渡されるオプション。
.\"O With these options (see
.\"O .BR sadc (8)
.\"O manual page), you can select some additional data which are going to be saved in
.\"O daily data files.
これらのオプション
.RB ( sadc (8)
マニュアルページを参照) を指定すると、
日次データファイルに保存される追加データが選択できる。
.\"O These options are used only when a new data file is created. They will be
.\"O ignored with an already existing one.
これらのオプションは新しいデータファイルが作成されるときにのみ
使われる。
既に存在するデータファイルについては、無視される。

.TP
.B YESTERDAY
.\"O By default
.\"O .BR sa2
.\"O script generates yesterday's summary, since the cron job
.\"O usually runs right after midnight. If you want
.\"O .BR sa2
.\"O to generate the summary of the same day (for example when cron
.\"O job runs at 23:53) set this variable to no.
デフォルトでは
.BR sa2
スクリプトは昨日のサマリーを生成する。
それは、cron ジョブが通常は午前 0 時を過ぎた直後に実行されるからである。
.BR sa2
に同じ日のサマリーを生成させたい場合
(例えば、cron ジョブを 23:53 に実行する場合)、
この変数を no に設定すること。

.TP
.B ZIP
.\"O Program used to compress data and report files.
データファイルとレポートファイルの圧縮に使うプログラム。

.\"O .SH FILES
.SH ファイル
.IR /etc/sysconfig/sysstat

.\"O .SH AUTHOR
.SH 著者
Sebastien Godard (sysstat <at> orange.fr)
.\"O .SH SEE ALSO
.SH 関連項目
.BR sadc (8),
.BR sa1 (8),
.BR sa2 (8)

.I https://github.com/sysstat/sysstat

.I http://pagesperso-orange.fr/sebastien.godard/
