.\" Man page for format of the manpath.config data file
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 1994, 1995 Graeme W. Wilford. (Wilf.)
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2019 Colin Watson.
.\"
.\" You may distribute under the terms of the GNU General Public
.\" License as specified in the file COPYING that comes with the
.\" man-db distribution.
.\"
.\" Sat Oct 29 13:09:31 GMT 1994  Wilf. (G.Wilford@ee.surrey.ac.uk)
.\"
.\" Japanese Version Copyright (c) 1998 NAKANO Takeo all rights reserved.
.\" Translated Fri 25 Sep 1998 by NAKANO Takeo <nakano@apm.seikei.ac.jp>
.\"
.\"WORD:        hierarchy       系列
.\"
.pc
.TH MANPATH 5 "2019-10-23" "2.9.0" "/etc/man_db.conf"
.\"O .SH NAME
.SH 名前
.\"O manpath \- format of the /etc/man_db.conf file
manpath \- /etc/man_db.conf ファイルのフォーマット
.\"O .SH DESCRIPTION
.SH 説明
.\"O The manpath configuration file is used by the manual page utilities
.\"O to assess users' manpaths at run time, to indicate which manual page
.\"O hierarchies (manpaths) are to be treated as system hierarchies and to
.\"O assign them directories to be used for storing cat files.
manpath 設定ファイルは、マニュアルページのユーティリティによって用いられる。
ユーザーの manpath を実行時に評価したり、どのマニュアルページ系列
(hierarchy) すなわち manpath をシステムの系列として扱うかを判断したり、
どのディレクトリを cat ファイルを保管するディレクトリとして用いるかを
決定するために用いられる。

.\"O If the environment variable
.\"O .RB $ MANPATH
.\"O is already set, the information contained within /etc/man_db.conf will
.\"O not override it.
環境変数
.RB $ MANPATH
がすでに設定されている場合には、/etc/man_db.conf に含まれている
情報はそれを上書きしない。
.\"O .SH FORMAT
.SH フォーマット
.\"O The following field types are currently recognised:
現在のところ、以下のフィールドタイプが認識される。
.TP
.BI # \ comment
.\"O Blank lines or those beginning with a
.\"O .B #
.\"O will be treated as comments and ignored.
空行や
.B #
で始まる行はコメントとみなされ、無視される。
.TP
.BI MANDATORY_MANPATH \ manpath_element
.\"O Lines of this form indicate manpaths that every automatically generated
.\"O .RB $ MANPATH
.\"O should contain.
この形式の行は、自動的に生成される
.RB $ MANPATH
には必ず含まれているべき manpath を示す。
.\"O This will typically include
.\"O .IR /usr/man .
.I /usr/man
などが典型である。
.TP
.BI MANPATH_MAP \ path_element\ manpath_element
.\"O Lines of this form set up
.\"O .RB $ PATH
.\"O to
.\"O .RB $ MANPATH
.\"O mappings.
この形式の行は
.RB PATH
から
.RB $ MANPATH
へのマッピングを設定する。
.\"O For each
.\"O .I path_element
.\"O found in the user's
.\"O .RB $ PATH ,
.\"O .I manpath_element
.\"O will be added to the
.\"O .RB $ MANPATH .
それぞれの
.I path_element
がユーザーの
.RB $ PATH
に含まれていると、
.I manpath_element
が
.RB $ MANPATH
に追加される。
.TP
\fBMANDB_MAP \fImanpath_element \fR\|[\| \fIcatpath_element\fR \|]
.\"O Lines of this form indicate which manpaths are to be treated as system
.\"O manpaths, and optionally where their cat files should be stored.
この形式の行は、どの manpath をシステムの manpath として扱い、またそれらの cat 
ページをどこに保存するかを指定する (後半は省略可)。
.\"O This field type is particularly important if
.\"O .B man
.\"O is a setuid program, as (when in the system configuration file
.\"O /etc/man_db.conf rather than the per-user configuration file .manpath)
.\"O it indicates which manual page hierarchies to access as the setuid user and
.\"O which as the invoking user.
この形式のフィールドは、
.B man
が setuid されたプログラムである場合に特に重要である。
なぜなら、(ユーザー毎の設定ファイル .manpath ではなく、
システムの設定ファイル /etc/man_db.conf において)
これはどの系列を setuid されたユーザー権限でアクセスし、
どれを起動ユーザーの権限でアクセスするかを指定することになるから
である。

.\"O The system manual page hierarchies are usually those stored under
.\"O .I /usr
.\"O such as
.\"O .IR /usr/man ,
.\"O .I /usr/local/man
.\"O and
.\"O .IR /usr/X11R6/man .
システムのマニュアルページの系列は、通常
.I /usr
以下に保管されている。例えば
.IR /usr/man ,
.IR /usr/local/man ,
.I /usr/X11R6/man
などがこれにあたる。

.\"O If cat pages from a particular
.\"O .I manpath_element
.\"O are not to be stored or are to be stored in the traditional location,
.\"O .I catpath_element
.\"O may be omitted.
特定の
.I manpath_element
からの cat ページは保管したくない場合や、伝統的な位置に保管したい場合には、
.I catpath_element
は省略する。

.\"O Traditional cat placement would be impossible for read only mounted manual
.\"O page hierarchies and because of this it is possible to specify any valid
.\"O directory hierarchy for their storage.
伝統的な cat の場所は、リードオンリーでマウントされているマニュアルページの
系列下にすることはできない。この理由から、これらの保管場所としては、
任意のディレクトリ系列を指定することが可能になっている (もちろん指定した
ディレクトリは有効なものでなければならない)。
.\"O To observe the
.\"O .B Linux FSSTND
.\"O the keyword
.\"O .B FSSTND
.\"O can be used in place of an actual directory.
.B Linux FSSTND
に従う場合には、
キーワード
.B FSSTND
を実際のディレクトリ名の代わりに用いることができる。

.\"O Unfortunately, it is necessary to specify
.\"O .B all
.\"O system man tree paths, including alternate operating system paths such as
.\"O .I /usr/man/sun
.\"O and any
.\"O .B NLS locale
.\"O paths such as
.\"O .IR /usr/man/de_DE.88591 .
残念ながら、システムの man のツリーパスは\fBすべて\fR指定しなければならない。
他のシステムパス
.RI ( /usr/man/sun
のようなもの) やすべての
.B NLS ロケール
パス
.RI ( /usr/man/de_DE.88591
のようなもの) も、それぞれすべて指定する必要がある。

.\"O As the information is parsed line by line in the order written, it is
.\"O necessary for any manpath that is a sub-hierarchy of another hierarchy to be
.\"O listed first, otherwise an incorrect match will be made.
情報は書かれた順に一行ずつ評価されるので、他の系列のサブツリーと
なっているような manpath は先に書かなければならない。
さもないと、マッチが正しく行われない可能性がある。
.\"O An example is that
.\"O .I /usr/man/de_DE.88591
.\"O must come before
.\"O .IR /usr/man .
例えば
.I /usr/man/de_DE.88591
は
.I /usr/man
より先に来なければならない。
.TP
.BI DEFINE \ key\ value
Lines of this form define miscellaneous configuration variables; see the
default configuration file for those variables used by the manual pager
utilities.
They include default paths to various programs (such as
.I grep
and
.IR tbl ),
and default sets of arguments to those programs.
.TP
\fBSECTION\fR \fIsection\fR .\|.\|.
.RS
Lines of this form define the order in which manual sections should be
searched.
If there are no
.B SECTION
directives in the configuration file, the default is:
.PP
.RS
.nf
SECTION 1 n l 8 3 0 2 5 4 9 6 7
.fi
.RE
.PP
If multiple
.B SECTION
directives are given, their section lists will be concatenated.
.PP
If a particular extension is not in this list (say, 1mh) it will be
displayed with the rest of the section it belongs to.
The effect of this is that you only need to explicitly list extensions if
you want to force a particular order.
Sections with extensions should usually be adjacent to their main section
(e.g. "1 1mh 8 ...").
.PP
.B SECTIONS
is accepted as an alternative name for this directive.
.RE
.TP
.BI MINCATWIDTH \ width
If the terminal width is less than
.IR width ,
cat pages will not be created (if missing) or displayed.
The default is 80.
.TP
.BI MAXCATWIDTH \ width
If the terminal width is greater than
.IR width ,
cat pages will not be created (if missing) or displayed.
The default is 80.
.TP
.BI CATWIDTH \ width
If
.I width
is non-zero, cat pages will always be formatted for a terminal of the given
width, regardless of the width of the terminal actually being used.
This should generally be within the range set by
.B MINCATWIDTH
and
.BR MAXCATWIDTH .
.TP
.B NOCACHE
This flag prevents
.BR man (1)
from creating cat pages automatically.
.\"O .SH BUGS
.SH バグ
.\"O Unless the rules above are followed and observed precisely, the manual pager
.\"O utilities will not function as desired.
上記のルールが正しく守られない場合には、マニュアルページャーの機能は
正しく動作しない。
.\"O The rules are overly complicated.
これらのルールは不必要に難しい。
