.\"
.\" Japanese Version Copyright (c) 2019-2020 Yuichi SATO
.\"         all rights reserved.
.\" Translated Tue Jul  9 01:08:12 JST 2019
.\"         by Yuichi SATO <ysato444@ybb.ne.jp>
.\" Updated & Modified Sat Mar 28 23:20:10 JST 2020 by Yuichi SATO
.\"
.TH SA1 8 "JUNE 2014" Linux "Linux User's Manual" -*- nroff -*-
.\"O .SH NAME
.SH 名前
.\"O sa1 \- Collect and store binary data in the system activity daily data file.
sa1 \- 情報を収集し、バイナリデータをシステム活性度日次データファイルに格納する。
.\"O .SH SYNOPSIS
.SH 書式
.B /usr/lib64/sa/sa1 [ --boot |
.I interval
.I count
.B ]
.\"O .SH DESCRIPTION
.SH 説明
.\"O The
.\"O .B sa1
.\"O command is a shell procedure variant of the
.\"O .B sadc
.\"O command and handles all of the flags and parameters of that command. The
.\"O .B sa1
.\"O command collects and stores binary data in the current standard
.\"O system activity daily data file.
.B sa1
コマンドは
.B sadc
コマンドを使ったシェルプログラムの一種で、
.B sadc
の全てのフラグとパラメータを扱う。
.B sa1
コマンドはデータを収集し、バイナリデータを現在の
標準システム活性度日次データファイル
(standard system activity daily data file) に格納する。

.\"O The standard system activity daily data file is named
.\"O .I saDD
.\"O unless
.\"O .BR sadc 's
.\"O option
.\"O .B -D
.\"O is used, in which case its name is
.\"O .IR saYYYYMMDD ,
.\"O where YYYY stands for the current year, MM for the current month
.\"O and DD for the current day. By default it is located in the
.\"O .I /var/log/sa
.\"O directory.
標準システム活性度日次データファイルは、
.B sadc
のオプション
.B -D
が指定されない限り、
.I saDD
と言う名前である。
指定された場合、
.I saYYYYMMDD
と言う名前である。
ここで、YYYY は現在の年、MM は月、DD は日である。
デフォルトでは、このファイルは
.I /var/log/sa
に置かれている。

.\"O The
.\"O .I interval
.\"O and
.\"O .I count
.\"O parameters specify that the record should be written
.\"O .I count
.\"O times at
.\"O .I interval
.\"O seconds. If no arguments are given to
.\"O .B sa1
.\"O then a single record is written.
.I interval
と
.I count
パラメータは、レコードを
.I count
回
.I interval
秒間隔で書き出すように指定する。
.B sa1
に引数を指定しない場合、1 レコードを書き出す。

.\"O The
.\"O .B sa1
.\"O command is designed to be started automatically by the cron command.
.B sa1
コマンドは cron コマンドから自動的に開始するようにデザインされている。

.\"O .SH OPTIONS
.SH オプション
.IP --boot
.\"O This option tells
.\"O .B sa1
.\"O that the
.\"O .B sadc
.\"O command should be called without specifying the
.\"O .I interval
.\"O and
.\"O .I count
.\"O parameters in order to insert a dummy record, marking the time when the counters
.\"O restart from 0.
このオプションを指定すると、
.B sa1
は
.B sadc
を
.I interval
と
.I count
パラメータを指定せずに呼び出す。
これにより、カウンターを 0 にリスタートするときに、
時刻を記載するダミーのレコードを追加する。
.\"O .SH EXAMPLE
.SH 例
.\"O To collect data (including those from disks) every 10 minutes,
.\"O place the following entry in your root crontab file:
(ディスクを含む) データを 10 分間隔で集めるには、
以下のエントリを root の crontab ファイルに追加すること。

.B 0,10,20,30,40,50 * * * * /usr/lib64/sa/sa1 1 1 -S DISK

.\"O .SH FILES
.SH ファイル
.I /var/log/sa/saDD
.br
.I /var/log/sa/saYYYYMMDD
.RS
.\"O The standard system activity daily data files and their default location.
.\"O YYYY stands for the current year, MM for the current month and DD for the
.\"O current day.
標準システム活性度日次データファイルとデフォルトの場所。
YYYY は現在の年、MM は月、DD は日である。

.\"O .SH AUTHOR
.SH 著者
Sebastien Godard (sysstat <at> orange.fr)
.\"O .SH SEE ALSO
.SH 関連項目
.BR sar (1),
.BR sadc (8),
.BR sa2 (8),
.BR sadf (1),
.BR sysstat (5)

.I http://pagesperso-orange.fr/sebastien.godard/
