.\" Copyright 1999 Andreas Dilger (adilger@enel.ucalgary.ca)
.\"
.\" %Begin-Header%
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, and the entire permission notice in its entirety,
.\"    including the disclaimer of warranties.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. The name of the author may not be used to endorse or promote
.\"    products derived from this software without specific prior
.\"    written permission.
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED
.\" WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES
.\" OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, ALL OF
.\" WHICH ARE HEREBY DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
.\" CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT
.\" OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR
.\" BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
.\" (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE
.\" USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF NOT ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
.\" DAMAGE.
.\" %End-Header%
.\" Created  Wed Mar 10 17:42:12 1999, Andreas Dilger
.\"*******************************************************************
.\"
.\" This file was generated with po4a. Translate the source file.
.\"
.\"*******************************************************************
.\"
.\" Japanese Version Copyright 1999 by NAKANO Takeo. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Translated Sat 23 Oct 1999 by NAKANO Takeo <nakano@apm.seikei.ac.jp>
.\" Updated Tue 16 Nov 1999 by NAKANO Takeo
.\" Updated & Modified Thu May  5 00:25:48 JST 2005
.\"         by Yuichi SATO <ysato444@yahoo.co.jp>
.\"
.TH UUID_PARSE 3 "February 2012" "E2fsprogs version 1.42.1" 
.SH 名前
uuid_parse \- 入力された UUID 文字列をバイナリ表現に変換する
.SH 書式
.nf
\fB#include <uuid/uuid.h>\fP
.sp
\fBint uuid_parse(char *\fP\fIin\fP\fB, uuid_t \fP\fIuu\fP\fB);\fP
.fi
.SH 説明
\fBuuid_parse\fP 関数は \fIin\fP に与えられた UUID 文字列を変換し、バイナリ表現にする。 入力する UUID のフォーマットは
1b4e28ba\-2fa1\-11d2\-883f\-b9a761bde3fb のようなものである (\fBprintf\fP(3)  フォーマットで
"%08x\-%04x\-%04x\-%04x\-%012x"、 36 バイトに末尾の '\e0' を加えたもの)。
.SH 返り値
文字列を正しく解釈 (parse) できたら、 0 が返され、その UUID は \fIuu\fP が指すメモリ位置に保存される。解釈できなかったら \-1
が返される。
.SH 準拠
OSF DCE 1.1
.SH 作者
Theodore Y. Ts'o
.SH 入手方法
.UR http://e2fsprogs.sourceforge.net/
http://e2fsprogs.sourceforge.net/
.UE
.SH 関連項目
\fBuuid\fP(3), \fBuuid_clear\fP(3), \fBuuid_compare\fP(3), \fBuuid_copy\fP(3),
\fBuuid_generate\fP(3), \fBuuid_is_null\fP(3), \fBuuid_time\fP(3), \fBuuid_unparse\fP(3)
