.\" Copyright 1999 Andreas Dilger (adilger@enel.ucalgary.ca)
.\"
.\" %Begin-Header%
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, and the entire permission notice in its entirety,
.\"    including the disclaimer of warranties.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. The name of the author may not be used to endorse or promote
.\"    products derived from this software without specific prior
.\"    written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED
.\" WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES
.\" OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, ALL OF
.\" WHICH ARE HEREBY DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
.\" CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT
.\" OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR
.\" BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
.\" (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE
.\" USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF NOT ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
.\" DAMAGE.
.\" %End-Header%
.\"
.\" Created  Wed Mar 10 17:42:12 1999, Andreas Dilger
.\"
.\" Japanese Version Copyright 1999 by NAKANO Takeo. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Translated Sat 23 Oct 1999 by NAKANO Takeo <nakano@apm.seikei.ac.jp>
.\" Updated Tue 16 Nov 1999 by NAKANO Takeo
.\" Updated Thu 3 Oct 2002 by NAKANO Takeo
.\" Updated & Modified Mon Jul  1 00:00:00 JST 2019
.\"         by Yuichi SATO <ysato444@ybb.ne.jp>
.\" Updated & Modified Sat May  2 19:53:35 JST 2020
.\"         by Yuichi SATO <ysato444@ybb.ne.jp>
.\"
.TH UUID 3 "May 2009" "util-linux" "Libuuid API"
.\"O .SH NAME
.SH 名前
.\"O uuid \- DCE compatible Universally Unique Identifier library
uuid \- DCE 互換の Universally Unique Idenifier ライブラリ
.\"O .SH SYNOPSIS
.SH 書式
.B #include <uuid.h>
.\"O .SH DESCRIPTION
.SH 説明
.\"O The UUID library is used to generate unique identifiers for objects
.\"O that may be accessible beyond the local system.  This library
.\"O generates UUIDs compatible with those created by the Open Software
.\"O Foundation (OSF) Distributed Computing Environment (DCE) utility
.\"O .BR uuidgen .
UUID ライブラリは他と重ならない識別子 (unique identifier) を、
ローカル以外からもアクセスされうるオブジェクトに対して
生成するために用いられる。
このライブラリが生成する UUID は、Open Software Foundation (OSF)
Distributed Computing Environment (DCE) のユーティリティ
.B uuidgen
が生成するものと互換である。
.sp
.\"O The UUIDs generated by this library can be reasonably expected to be
.\"O unique within a system, and unique across all systems.  They could
.\"O be used, for instance, to generate unique HTTP cookies across multiple
.\"O web servers without communication between the servers, and without fear
.\"O of a name clash.
このライブラリによって生成された UUID は、システム内外をよらず
他とは重ならないものと考えて良い。
このような UUID は、たとえば複数の web サーバにまたがる HTTP クッキーに使うことができる。
サーバ間でのやり取りなしに作成でき、かつ名前衝突の心配がない。
.\"O .SH "CONFORMING TO"
.SH 準拠
.\"O This library generates UUIDs compatible with OSF DCE 1.1, and hash based UUIDs
.\"O V3 and V5 compatible with RFC-4122.
このライブラリは OSF DCE 1.1 に準拠した UUID を生成する。
また、ハッシュベース UUID V3 と V5 は RFC-4122 に準拠する。
.\"O .SH AUTHOR
.SH 作者
Theodore Y.\& Ts'o
.\"O .SH AVAILABILITY
.SH 入手方法
.\"O .B libuuid
.\"O is part of the util-linux package since version 2.15.1 and is available from
.\"O https://www.kernel.org/pub/linux/utils/util-linux/.
.B libuuid
はバージョン 2.15.1 から util-linux パッケージの一部であり、
https://www.kernel.org/pub/linux/utils/util-linux/
から入手できる。
.\"O .SH "SEE ALSO"
.SH 関連項目
.BR uuid_clear (3),
.BR uuid_compare (3),
.BR uuid_copy (3),
.BR uuid_generate (3),
.BR uuid_is_null (3),
.BR uuid_parse (3),
.BR uuid_time (3),
.BR uuid_unparse (3)
