.\" Copyright 1999 Andreas Dilger (adilger@enel.ucalgary.ca)
.\"
.\" %Begin-Header%
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, and the entire permission notice in its entirety,
.\"    including the disclaimer of warranties.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. The name of the author may not be used to endorse or promote
.\"    products derived from this software without specific prior
.\"    written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED
.\" WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES
.\" OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, ALL OF
.\" WHICH ARE HEREBY DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
.\" CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT
.\" OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR
.\" BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
.\" (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE
.\" USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF NOT ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
.\" DAMAGE.
.\" %End-Header%
.\"
.\" Created  Wed Mar 10 17:42:12 1999, Andreas Dilger
.\"
.\" Japanese Version Copyright 1999 by NAKANO Takeo. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Translated Wed Oct 20 1999 by NAKANO Takeo <nakano@apm.seikei.ac.jp>
.\" Updated Tue 16 Nov 1999 by NAKANO Takeo
.\" Updated & Modified Thu May  5 01:09:52 JST 2005
.\"         by Yuichi SATO <ysato444@yahoo.co.jp>
.\" Updated & Modified Mon Jul  1 00:00:00 JST 2019
.\"         by Yuichi SATO <ysato444@ybb.ne.jp>
.\" Updated & Modified Sun May  3 08:34:29 JST 2020
.\"         by Yuichi SATO <ysato444@ybb.ne.jp>
.\"
.TH UUID_UNPARSE 3 "May 2009" "util-linux" "Libuuid API"
.\"O .SH NAME
.SH 名前
.\"O uuid_unparse \- convert a UUID from binary representation to a string
uuid_unparse \- UUID をバイナリ表現から文字列に変換する
.\"O .SH SYNOPSIS
.SH 書式
.nf
.B #include <uuid.h>
.sp
.BI "void uuid_unparse(uuid_t " uu ", char *" out );
.BI "void uuid_unparse_upper(uuid_t " uu ", char *" out );
.BI "void uuid_unparse_lower(uuid_t " uu ", char *" out );
.fi
.\"O .SH DESCRIPTION
.SH 説明
.\"O The
.\"O .B uuid_unparse
.\"O function converts the supplied UUID
.\"O .I uu
.\"O from the binary representation into a 36-byte string (plus trailing '\e0')
.\"O of the form 1b4e28ba\-2fa1\-11d2\-883f\-0016d3cca427 and stores this
.\"O value in the character string pointed to by
.\"O .IR out .
.B uuid_unparse
関数は、与えられた UUID
.I uu
をバイナリ表現から 36 バイトの文字列 (と末尾文字 '\e0') に変換する。
文字列フォーマットは 1b4e28ba\-2fa1\-11d2\-883f\-0016d3cca427 のようなもので、
これは
.I out
が指す文字列に保存される。
.\"O The case of the hex digits returned by
.\"O .B uuid_unparse
.\"O may be upper or lower case, and is
.\"O dependent on the system-dependent local default.
.B uuid_unparse
で返される 16 進数が大文字であるか小文字であるかは、
システム固有のローカルなデフォルトに依存する。
.PP
.\"O If the case of the
.\"O hex digits is important then the functions
.\"O .B uuid_unparse_upper
.\"O and
.\"O .B uuid_unparse_lower
.\"O may be used.
16 進数が大文字であるか小文字であるかが重要な場合は、
関数
.B uuid_unparse_upper
と
.B uuid_unparse_lower
を使用することができる。
.\"O .SH "CONFORMING TO"
.SH 準拠
.\"O This library unparses UUIDs compatible with OSF DCE 1.1.
このライブラリは OSF DCE 1.1 に準拠した UUID を変換する。
.\"O .SH AUTHOR
.SH 作者
Theodore Y.\& Ts'o
.\"O .SH AVAILABILITY
.SH 入手方法
.\"O .B libuuid
.\"O is part of the util-linux package since version 2.15.1 and is available from
.\"O https://www.kernel.org/pub/linux/utils/util-linux/.
.B libuuid
はバージョン 2.15.1 から util-linux パッケージの一部であり、
https://www.kernel.org/pub/linux/utils/util-linux/
から入手できる。
.na
.\"O .SH "SEE ALSO"
.SH 関連項目
.BR uuid (3),
.BR uuid_clear (3),
.BR uuid_compare (3),
.BR uuid_copy (3),
.BR uuid_generate (3),
.BR uuid_time (3),
.BR uuid_is_null (3),
.BR uuid_parse (3)
.ad
