.\" Copyright 1999 Andreas Dilger (adilger@enel.ucalgary.ca)
.\"
.\" %Begin-Header%
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, and the entire permission notice in its entirety,
.\"    including the disclaimer of warranties.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. The name of the author may not be used to endorse or promote
.\"    products derived from this software without specific prior
.\"    written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED
.\" WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES
.\" OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, ALL OF
.\" WHICH ARE HEREBY DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
.\" CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT
.\" OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR
.\" BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
.\" (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE
.\" USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF NOT ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
.\" DAMAGE.
.\" %End-Header%
.\"
.\" Created  Wed Mar 10 17:42:12 1999, Andreas Dilger
.\"
.\" Japanese Version Copyright 1999 by NAKANO Takeo. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Translated Wed Oct 20 1999 by NAKANO Takeo <nakano@apm.seikei.ac.jp>
.\" Updated Tue 16 Nov 1999 by NAKANO Takeo
.\" Updated & Modified Mon Jul  1 00:00:00 JST 2019
.\"         by Yuichi SATO <ysato444@ybb.ne.jp>
.\" Updated & Modified Sat May  2 20:58:32 JST 2020
.\"         by Yuichi SATO <ysato444@ybb.ne.jp>
.\"
.TH UUID_COMPARE 3 "May 2009" "util-linux" "Libuuid API"
.\"O .SH NAME
.SH 名前
.\"O uuid_compare \- compare whether two UUIDs are the same
uuid_compare \- 2 つの UUID が同じであるか比較する
.\"O .SH SYNOPSIS
.SH 書式
.nf
.B #include <uuid.h>
.sp
.BI "int uuid_compare(uuid_t " uu1 ", uuid_t " uu2)
.fi
.\"O .SH DESCRIPTION
.SH 説明
.\"O The
.\"O .B uuid_compare
.\"O function compares the two supplied uuid variables
.\"O .IR uu1 " and " uu2
.\"O to each other.
.B uuid_compare
関数は、与えられた 2 つの uuid 変数
.IR uu1 " と " uu2
がお互いに等しいかどうか比較する。
.\"O .SH RETURN VALUE
.SH 返り値
.\"O Returns an integer less than, equal to, or greater than zero if
.\"O .I uu1
.\"O is found,  respectively, to be lexicographically less than, equal, or
.\"O greater than
.\"O .IR uu2 .
.I uu1
が
.I uu2
よりも辞書的 (lexigraphically) に小さければ 0 より小さい整数が、
等しければ 0 が、大きければ 0 より大きい整数がそれぞれ返される。
.\"O .SH AUTHOR
.SH 作者
Theodore Y.\& Ts'o
.\"O .SH AVAILABILITY
.SH 入手方法
.\"O .B libuuid
.\"O is part of the util-linux package since version 2.15.1 and is available from
.\"O https://www.kernel.org/pub/linux/utils/util-linux/.
.B libuuid
はバージョン 2.15.1 から util-linux パッケージの一部であり、
https://www.kernel.org/pub/linux/utils/util-linux/
から入手できる。
.na
.\"O .SH "SEE ALSO"
.SH 関連項目
.BR uuid (3),
.BR uuid_clear (3),
.BR uuid_copy (3),
.BR uuid_generate (3),
.BR uuid_is_null (3),
.BR uuid_parse (3),
.BR uuid_unparse (3)
.ad
