.\" Copyright 1999 Andreas Dilger (adilger@enel.ucalgary.ca)
.\"
.\" %Begin-Header%
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, and the entire permission notice in its entirety,
.\"    including the disclaimer of warranties.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. The name of the author may not be used to endorse or promote
.\"    products derived from this software without specific prior
.\"    written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED
.\" WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES
.\" OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, ALL OF
.\" WHICH ARE HEREBY DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
.\" CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT
.\" OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR
.\" BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
.\" (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE
.\" USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF NOT ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
.\" DAMAGE.
.\" %End-Header%
.\"
.\" Created  Wed Mar 10 17:42:12 1999, Andreas Dilger
.\"
.\" Japanese Version Copyright 1999 by NAKANO Takeo. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Translated Wed Oct 20 1999 by NAKANO Takeo <nakano@apm.seikei.ac.jp>
.\" Updated Tue 16 Nov 1999 by NAKANO Takeo
.\" Updated & Modified Thu May  5 00:55:08 JST 2005
.\"         by Yuichi SATO <ysato444@yahoo.co.jp>
.\" Updated & Modified Mon Jul  1 00:00:00 JST 2019
.\"         by Yuichi SATO <ysato444@ybb.ne.jp>
.\" Updated & Modified Sun May  3 00:44:54 JST 2020
.\"         by Yuichi SATO <ysato444@ybb.ne.jp>
.\"
.TH UUID_TIME 3 "May 2009" "util-linux" "Libuuid API"
.\"O .SH NAME
.SH 名前
.\"O uuid_time \- extract the time at which the UUID was created
uuid_time \- UUID が生成された時刻を取り出す
.\"O .SH SYNOPSIS
.SH 書式
.nf
.B #include <uuid.h>
.sp
.BI "time_t uuid_time(uuid_t " uu ", struct timeval *" ret_tv )
.fi
.\"O .SH DESCRIPTION
.SH 説明
.\"O The
.\"O .B uuid_time
.\"O function extracts the time at which the supplied time-based UUID
.\"O .I uu
.\"O was created.  Note that the UUID creation time is only encoded within
.\"O certain types of UUIDs.  This function can only reasonably expect to
.\"O extract the creation time for UUIDs created with the
.\"O .BR uuid_generate_time (3)
.\"O and
.\"O .BR uuid_generate_time_safe (3)
.\"O functions.  It may or may not work with UUIDs created by other mechanisms.
.B uuid_time
は、与えられた時刻ベースの UUID
.I uu
から、それが生成された時刻を取り出す。
UUID の生成時刻は特定のタイプの UUID にのみエンコードされている点に注意すること。
この関数が時刻を取り出せる UUID は、おそらく
.BR uuid_generate_time (3)
と
.BR uuid_generate_time_safe (3)
関数によって生成されたものに限られる。
他の仕組みによって生成された UUID では、取り出せる場合もあるし、取り出せない場合もある。
.\"O .SH "RETURN VALUES"
.SH 返り値
.\"O The time at which the UUID was created, in seconds since January 1, 1970 GMT
.\"O (the epoch), is returned (see
.\"O .BR time "(2))."
.\"O The time at which the UUID was created, in seconds and microseconds since
.\"O the epoch, is also stored in the location pointed to by
.\"O .I ret_tv
.\"O (see
.\"O .BR gettimeofday "(2))."
UUID が生成された時刻が、January 1 1970 GMT (the epoch: 紀元) からの経過秒数で返される
.RB ( time "(2)"
見よ)。
UUID が生成された時刻を、紀元からの秒 + マイクロ秒で表したものも、
.I ret_tv
が指す場所に保存されている
.RB ( gettimeofday "(2)"
を見よ)。
.\"O .SH AUTHOR
.SH 作者
Theodore Y.\& Ts'o
.\"O .SH AVAILABILITY
.SH 入手方法
.\"O .B libuuid
.\"O is part of the util-linux package since version 2.15.1 and is available from
.\"O https://www.kernel.org/pub/linux/utils/util-linux/.
.B libuuid
はバージョン 2.15.1 から util-linux パッケージの一部であり、
https://www.kernel.org/pub/linux/utils/util-linux/
から入手できる。
.na
.\"O .SH "SEE ALSO"
.SH 関連項目
.BR uuid (3),
.BR uuid_clear (3),
.BR uuid_compare (3),
.BR uuid_copy (3),
.BR uuid_generate (3),
.BR uuid_is_null (3),
.BR uuid_parse (3),
.BR uuid_unparse (3)
.ad
