.\" terminal-colors.d.5 --
.\" Copyright 2014 Ondrej Oprala <ooprala@redhat.com>
.\" Copyright (C) 2014 Karel Zak <kzak@redhat.com>
.\" Copyright 2014 Red Hat, Inc.
.\" May be distributed under the GNU General Public License
.\"
.\" Japanese Version Copyright (c) 2020 Yuichi SATO
.\"         all rights reserved.
.\" Translated Sun May  3 15:16:32 JST 2020
.\"         by Yuichi SATO <ysato444@ybb.ne.jp>
.\"
.TH "TERMINAL_COLORS.D" "5" "January 2014" "util-linux" "terminal-colors.d"
.\"O .SH "NAME"
.SH 名前
.\"O terminal-colors.d \- Configure output colorization for various utilities
terminal-colors.d \- いろいろなユーティリティの出力の色付けを設定する。
.\"O .SH "SYNOPSIS"
.SH 書式
/etc/terminal-colors\&.d/[[\fIname\fR][@\fIterm\fR]\&.][\fItype\fR]
.\"O .SH "DESCRIPTION"
.SH 説明
.\"O Files in this directory determine the default behavior for utilities
.\"O when coloring output.
このディレクトリ内のファイルは、ユーティリティで出力を色付けする際の
デフォルトの挙動を決定する。

.\"O The
.\"O .I name
.\"O is a utility name.  The name is optional and when none is specified then the
.\"O file is used for all unspecified utilities.
.I name
はユーティリティ名である。
この名前はオプションであり、none が指定された場合、
そのファイルはユーティリティ名が指定されない場合に使われる。

.\"O The
.\"O .I term
.\"O is a terminal identifier (the TERM environment variable).
.\"O The terminal identifier is optional and when none is specified then the file
.\"O is used for all unspecified terminals.
.I term
は端末識別子 (TERM 環境変数) である。
この端末識別子はオプションであり、none が指定された場合、
そのファイルは端末が指定されない場合に使われる。

.\"O The
.\"O .I type
.\"O is a file type.  Supported file types are:
.I type
はファイルタイプである。
サポートされるファイルタイプは以下の通り:
.TP
.B disable
.\"O Turns off output colorization for all compatible utilities.
全ての互換性のあるユーティリティで、出力の色付けを無効化する。
.TP
.B enable
.\"O Turns on output colorization; any matching
.\"O .B disable
.\"O files are ignored.
出力の色付けを有効化する。
マッチする
.B disable
ファイルは無視される。
.TP
.B scheme
.\"O Specifies colors used for output.  The file format may be specific to the utility,
.\"O the default format is described below.
出力で使う色を指定する。
ファイル形式はユーティリティに固有のものであり、
デフォルトの形式は以下で記載されている。
.PP
.\"O If there are more files that match for a utility, then the file with the more
.\"O specific filename wins.  For example, the filename "@xterm.scheme" has less
.\"O priority than "dmesg@xterm.scheme".  The lowest priority are those files without a
.\"O utility name and terminal identifier (e.g. "disable").
ユーティリティにマッチする複数のファイルがある場合、より詳細な名前の
ファイルが優先される。
例えば、ファイル名 "@xterm.scheme" は "dmesg@xterm.scheme" より優先度が低い。
ユーティリティ名と端末識別子がないファイル (つまり "disable") の優先度がもっとも低い。

.\"O The user-specific
.\"O .I $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/terminal-colors.d
.\"O or
.\"O .I $HOME/.config/terminal-colors.d
.\"O overrides the global setting.
ユーザー固有の
.I $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/terminal-colors.d
または
.I $HOME/.config/terminal-colors.d
はグローバル設定を上書きする。

.\"O .SH EXAMPLES
.SH 例
.\"O Disable colors for all compatible utilities:
全ての互換性のあるユーティリティの色付けを無効化する:
.RS
.br
.B "touch /etc/terminal-colors.d/disable"
.br
.RE

.\"O Disable colors for all compatible utils on a vt100 terminal:
vt100 端末上の全ての互換性のあるユーティリティの色付けを無効化する:
.RS
.br
.B "touch /etc/terminal-colors.d/@vt100.disable"
.br
.RE

.\"O Disable colors for all compatible utils except dmesg(1):
dmesg(1) を除き、全ての互換性のあるユーティリティの色付けを無効化する:
.RS
.br
.B "touch /etc/terminal-colors.d/disable"
.sp
.B "touch /etc/terminal-colors.d/dmesg.enable"
.br
.RE

.\"O .SH DEFAULT SCHEME FILES FORMAT
.SH デフォルトのスキーマファイル形式
.\"O The following statement is recognized:
以下のステートメントが認識される:

.RS
.br
.B "name color-sequence"
.br
.RE

.\"O The
.\"O .B name
.\"O is a logical name of color sequence (for example "error").  The names are
.\"O specific to the utilities.  For more details always see the COLORS section
.\"O in the man page for the utility.
.B name
はカラーシーケンスの論理名である (例えば "error")。
この名前はユーティリティ固有である。
詳細はユーティリティの man ページの「カラー表示」のセクションを参照すること。

.\"O The
.\"O .B color-sequence
.\"O is a color name, ASCII color sequences or escape sequences.
.B color-sequence
は、色名、ASCII カラーシーケンス、エスケープシーケンスのいずれかである。

.\"O .SS Color names
.SS 色名
black, blink, blue, bold, brown, cyan, darkgray, gray, green, halfbright,
lightblue, lightcyan, lightgray, lightgreen, lightmagenta, lightred, magenta,
.\"O red, reset, reverse, and yellow.
red, reset, reverse, yellow.

.\"O .SS ANSI color sequences
.SS ANSI カラーシーケンス
.\"O The color sequences are composed of sequences of numbers
.\"O separated by semicolons.  The most common codes are:
カラーシーケンスはセミコロンで区切られた数字の並びで構成される。
もっとも一般的なコードは以下の通り:
.sp
.RS
.TS
l l.
.\"O  0	to restore default color
.\"O  1	for brighter colors
.\"O  4	for underlined text
.\"O  5	for flashing text
 0	デフォルトの色を復元する
 1	明るい色
 4	下線のテキスト
 5	点滅するテキスト
.\"O 30	for black foreground
.\"O 31	for red foreground
.\"O 32	for green foreground
.\"O 33	for yellow (or brown) foreground
.\"O 34	for blue foreground
.\"O 35	for purple foreground
.\"O 36	for cyan foreground
.\"O 37	for white (or gray) foreground
30	黒の前景色
31	赤の前景色
32	緑の前景色
33	黄 (または茶) の前景色
34	青の前景色
35	紫の前景色
36	シアンの前景色
37	白 (または灰) の前景色
.\"O 40	for black background
.\"O 41	for red background
.\"O 42	for green background
.\"O 43	for yellow (or brown) background
.\"O 44	for blue background
.\"O 45	for purple background
.\"O 46	for cyan background
.\"O 47	for white (or gray) background
40	黒の背景色
41	赤の背景色
42	緑の背景色
43	黄 (または茶) の背景色
44	青の背景色
45	紫の背景色
46	シアンの背景色
47	白 (または灰) の背景色
.TE
.RE
.\"O .SS Escape sequences
.SS エスケープシーケンス
.\"O To specify control or blank characters in the color sequences,
.\"O C-style \e-escaped notation can be used:
制御文字または空白文字をカラーシーケンスで指定する。
C 言語形式のエスケープ記法が使われる:
.sp
.RS
.TS
lb l.
.\"O \ea	Bell (ASCII 7)
.\"O \eb	Backspace (ASCII 8)
.\"O \ee	Escape (ASCII 27)
.\"O \ef	Form feed (ASCII 12)
.\"O \en	Newline (ASCII 10)
.\"O \er	Carriage Return (ASCII 13)
.\"O \et	Tab (ASCII 9)
.\"O \ev	Vertical Tab (ASCII 11)
.\"O \e?	Delete (ASCII 127)
.\"O \e_	Space
.\"O \e\e	Backslash (\e)
.\"O \e^	Caret (^)
.\"O \e#	Hash mark (#)
\ea	ベル (ASCII 7)
\eb	バックスペース (ASCII 8)
\ee	エスケープ (ASCII 27)
\ef	フォームフィード (ASCII 12)
\en	改行 (ASCII 10)
\er	キャリッジリターン (ASCII 13)
\et	タブ (ASCII 9)
\ev	垂直タブ (ASCII 11)
\e?	デリート (ASCII 127)
\e_	スペース
\e\e	バックスラッシュ (\e)
\e^	キャレット (^)
\e#	ハッシュマーク (#)
.TE
.RE
.sp
.\"O Please note that escapes are necessary to enter a space, backslash,
.\"O caret, or any control character anywhere in the string, as well as a
.\"O hash mark as the first character.
スペース、バックスラッシュ、キャレット、その他の制御文字は文字列の
どの場所に入れるにも、エスケープが必要であり、同様にハッシュマークは
最初の文字にする必要がある点に注意してほしい。

.\"O For example, to use a red background for alert messages in the output of
.\"O .BR dmesg (1),
.\"O use:
例えば、
.BR dmesg (1)
の出力でアラートメッセージを赤の背景色にするには、以下のようにする:

.RS
.br
.B "echo 'alert 37;41' >> /etc/terminal-colors.d/dmesg.scheme"
.br
.RE

.\"O .SS Comments
.SS コメント
.\"O Lines where the first non-blank character is a # (hash) are ignored.
.\"O Any other use of the hash character is not interpreted as introducing
.\"O a comment.
空白文字以外の最初の文字が # (ハッシュ) である行は無視される。
ハッシュ文字以外の使われている文字は、コメントを挿入するために解釈
されない。

.\"O .SH FILES
.SH ファイル
.I $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/terminal-colors.d
.br
.I $HOME/.config/terminal-colors.d
.br
.I /etc/terminal-colors.d

.\"O .SH ENVIRONMENT
.SH 環境変数
.IP TERMINAL_COLORS_DEBUG=all
.\"O enables debug output.
デバッグ出力を有効にする。

.\"O .SH COMPATIBILITY
.SH 互換性
.\"O The terminal-colors.d functionality is currently supported by all util-linux
.\"O utilities which provides colorized output.  For more details always see the
.\"O COLORS section in the man page for the utility.
terminal-colors.d の機能は、現在のところ、出力の色付けを提供する
全ての util-linux ユーティリティでサポートされている。
詳細は、各ユーティリティの man ページの「カラー表示」セクションを常に参照すること。

.\"O .SH AVAILABILITY
.SH 入手方法
.\"O terminal-colors.d is part of the util-linux package and is available from
.\"O .UR https://\:www.kernel.org\:/pub\:/linux\:/utils\:/util-linux/
.\"O Linux Kernel Archive
.\"O .UE .
terminal-colors.d は util-linux パッケージの一部であり、
.UR https://\:www.kernel.org\:/pub\:/linux\:/utils\:/util-linux/
Linux Kernel Archive
.UE
から入手できる。
