.\"
.\" Japanese Version Copyright (c) 2019 Yuichi SATO
.\"         all rights reserved.
.\" Translated Tue Jul  9 19:33:24 JST 2019
.\"         by Yuichi SATO <ysato444@ybb.ne.jp>
.\"
.TH SA2 8 "JULY 2018" Linux "Linux User's Manual" -*- nroff -*-
.\"O .SH NAME
.SH 名前
.\"O sa2 \- Create a report from the current standard system activity daily data file.
sa2 \- 現在の標準システム活性度日次データファイルからレポートを作成する。
.\"O .SH SYNOPSIS
.SH 書式
.B /usr/lib64/sa/sa2
.\"O .SH DESCRIPTION
.SH 説明
.\"O The
.\"O .B sa2
.\"O command is a shell procedure variant of the
.\"O .B sar
.\"O command which writes a daily report in the
.\"O .I sarDD
.\"O or the
.\"O .I sarYYYYMMDD
.\"O file, where YYYY stands for the current year, MM for the current month
.\"O and DD for the current day.
.B sa2
コマンドは
.B sar
コマンドを使ったシェルプログラムの一種で、
日次レポートを
.I sarDD
または
.I sarYYYYMMDD
ファイルに書き出す。
ここで、YYYY は現在の年、MM は月、DD は日である。
.\"O By default the report is saved in the
.\"O .I /var/log/sa
.\"O directory.
デフォルトでは、このレポートは
.I /var/log/sa
に置かれている。
.\"O The
.\"O .B sa2
.\"O command will also remove reports more than one week old by default.
.B sa2
コマンドはデフォルトでは 1 週間以上前のレポートを削除も行う。
.\"O You can however keep reports for a longer (or a shorter) period by setting
.\"O the
.\"O .B HISTORY
.\"O environment variable. Read the
.\"O .BR sysstat (5)
.\"O manual page for details.
.B HISTORY
環境変数を設定することで、レポートの保持期間を長く (もしくは短く) できる。
詳細は
.BR sysstat (5)
マニュアルページを参照すること。

.\"O The
.\"O .B sa2
.\"O command accepts most of the flags and parameters of the
.\"O .B sar
.\"O command.
.B sa2
コマンドは
.B sar
コマンドの大部分のフラグとパラメータを受け付ける。

.\"O The
.\"O .B sa2
.\"O command is designed to be started automatically by the cron command.
.B sa2
コマンドは cron コマンドから自動的に開始するようにデザインされている。

.\"O .SH EXAMPLES
.SH 例
.\"O To run the
.\"O .B sa2
.\"O command daily, place the following entry in your root crontab file:
.B sa2
コマンドを毎日起動するには、
以下のエントリを root の crontab ファイルに追加すること。

.B 5 19 * * 1-5 /usr/lib64/sa/sa2 -A &

.\"O This will generate by default a daily report called
.\"O .I sarDD
.\"O in the
.\"O .I /var/log/sa
.\"O directory, where the DD parameter is a number representing the day of the
.\"O month.
これはデフォルトの日次レポート
.I sarDD
を
.I /var/log/sa
に生成する。
ここで DD パラメータは日を表す。
.\"O .SH FILES
.SH ファイル
.I /var/log/sa/sarDD
.br
.I /var/log/sa/sarYYYYMMDD
.RS
.\"O The standard system activity daily report files and their default location.
.\"O YYYY stands for the current year, MM for the current month and DD for the
.\"O current day.
標準システム活性度日次データファイル
(standard system activity daily data file) とデフォルトの場所。
YYYY は現在の年、MM は月、DD は日である。

.\"O .SH AUTHOR
.SH 著者
Sebastien Godard (sysstat <at> orange.fr)
.\"O .SH SEE ALSO
.SH 関連項目
.BR sar (1),
.BR sadc (8),
.BR sa1 (8),
.BR sadf (1),
.BR sysstat (5)

.I https://github.com/sysstat/sysstat

.I http://pagesperso-orange.fr/sebastien.godard/
