.\"
.\" Japanese Version Copyright (c) 2019 Yuichi SATO
.\"         all rights reserved.
.\" Translated Tue Jul  9 00:06:25 JST 2019
.\"         by Yuichi SATO <ysato444@ybb.ne.jp>
.\"
.TH SADC 8 "JULY 2018" Linux "Linux User's Manual" -*- nroff -*-
.\"O .SH NAME
.SH 名前
.\"O sadc \- System activity data collector.
sadc \- システム活性度のデータ収集を行う。
.\"O .SH SYNOPSIS
.SH 書式
.B /usr/lib64/sa/sadc [ -C
.I comment
.B ] [ -D ] [ -F ] [ -L ] [ -V ] [ -S { keyword [,...] | ALL | XALL } ] [
.I interval
.B [
.I count
.B ] ] [
.I outfile
.B ]
.\"O .SH DESCRIPTION
.SH 説明
.\"O The
.\"O .B sadc
.\"O command samples system data a specified number of times
.\"O (\fIcount\fR) at a specified interval measured in seconds
.\"O (\fIinterval\fR). It writes in binary format to the specified
.\"O .I outfile
.\"O or to standard output. If
.\"O .I outfile
.\"O is set to -, then
.\"O .B sadc
.\"O uses the standard system activity daily data file (see below).
.B sadc
コマンドは、指定した回数
(\fIcount\fR) と指定した間隔 (秒数)
(\fIinterval\fR) でシステムデータのサンプリングを行う。
このコマンドはバイナリ形式で、指定した
.I outfile
を書き出すか、標準出力に書き出す。
.I outfile
が - に設定された場合、
.B sadc
は標準システム活性度日次データファイル
(standard system activity daily data file) に書き出す (下記を参照)。
.\"O In this case, if the file already exists,
.\"O .B sadc
.\"O will overwrite it if it is from a previous month.
この場合、ファイルが既に存在するときは、もし前月のものであれば
.B sadc
は上書きする。
.\"O By default
.\"O .B sadc
.\"O collects most of the data available from the kernel.
デフォルトでは
.B sadc
はカーネルからほとんどのデータを収集する。
.\"O But there are also optional metrics, for which the
.\"O relevant options must be explicitly passed to
.\"O .B sadc
.\"O to be collected (see option -S below).
しかし、オプションの指標がある場合、
明示的に関連するオプションを渡して
.B sadc
に収集させることができる (下記のオプション -S を参照)。

.\"O The standard system activity daily data file is named
.\"O .I saDD
.\"O unless option
.\"O .B -D
.\"O is used, in which case its name is
.\"O .IR saYYYYMMDD ,
.\"O where YYYY stands for the current year, MM for the current month
.\"O and DD for the current day.
標準システム活性度日次データファイルは、
.B -D
が指定されない限り、
.I saDD
という名前である。
指定された場合、
.I saYYYYMMDD
という名前である。
ここで、YYYY は現在の年、MM は月、DD は日である。
.\"O By default it is located in the
.\"O .I /var/log/sa
.\"O directory. Yet it is possible to specify an alternate location for
.\"O it: If
.\"O .I outfile
.\"O is a directory (instead of a plain file) then it will be considered
.\"O as the directory where the standard system activity daily data file
.\"O will be saved.
デフォルトでは
.I /var/log/sa
ディレクトリにある。
ファイルの場所は別のディレクトリを指定することもできる。
.I outfile
が (プレーンファイルではなく) ディレクトリの場合、
標準システム活性度日次データファイルが保存される
ディレクトリと解釈される。

.\"O When the
.\"O .I count
.\"O parameter is not specified,
.\"O .B sadc
.\"O writes its data endlessly.
.I count
パラメータが指定されない場合、
.B sadc
はデータを終わりなく書きつづける。
.\"O When both
.\"O .I interval
.\"O and
.\"O .I count
.\"O are not specified, and option -C is not used,
.\"O a dummy record, which is used at system startup to mark
.\"O the time when the counter restarts from 0, will be written.
.I interval
と
.I count
の両方が指定されない場合、かつオプション -C が使われない場合、
ダミーレコードが書かれる。
ダミーレコードは、カウンターを 0 からリスタートさせるときに、
システムのスタートアップの時間をマークするために使われる。
.\"O For example, one of the system startup script may write the restart mark to
.\"O the daily data file by the command entry:
例えば、システムのスタートアップスクリプトの 1 つには、
日次データファイルにリスタートのマークを書き込むために、
下記のコマンドラインのエントリが含まれているだろう。

.B "/usr/lib64/sa/sadc -"

.\"O The
.\"O .B sadc
.\"O command is intended to be used as a backend to the
.\"O .B sar
.\"O command.
.B sadc
コマンドは
.B sar
コマンドのバックエンドとして使うことを意図している。

.\"O Note: The
.\"O .B sadc
.\"O command only reports on local activities.
注意:
.B sadc
コマンドはローカルの活性度のみをレポートする。

.\"O .SH OPTIONS
.SH オプション
.IP "-C comment"
.\"O When neither the
.\"O .I interval
.\"O nor the
.\"O .I count
.\"O parameters are specified, this option tells
.\"O .B sadc
.\"O to write a dummy record containing the specified
.\"O .I comment
.\"O string.
.I interval
と
.I count
パラメータがともに指定されない場合、
このオプションを指定すると、
.B sadc
は指定した
.I comment
文字列を含むダミーレコードを書き込む。
.\"O This comment can then be displayed with option -C of
.\"O .BR sar .
このコメントは、後から
.B sar
のオプション -C で表示できる。
.IP -D
.\"O Use
.\"O .I saYYYYMMDD
.\"O instead of
.\"O .I saDD
.\"O as the standard system activity daily data file name.
標準システム活性度日次データファイルとして、
.I saDD
ではなく、
.I saYYYYMMDD
を使う。
.IP -F
.\"O The creation of
.\"O .I outfile
.\"O will be forced. If the file already exists and has a format unknown to
.\"O .B sadc
.\"O then it will be truncated. This may be useful for daily data files
.\"O created by an older version of
.\"O .B sadc
.\"O and whose format is no longer compatible with current one.
.I outfile
の作成を強制する。
ファイルが既に存在し、フォーマットが
.B sadc
が認識できない場合、ファイルを切り詰める。
これは日次データファイルが
.B sadc
の古いバージョンで作成されていて、現在のバージョンと既に
互換性がない場合に役立つ。
.IP -L
.\"O .B sadc
.\"O will try to get an exclusive lock on the
.\"O .I outfile
.\"O before writing to it or truncating it. Failure to get the lock is fatal,
.\"O except in the case of trying to write a normal (i.e. not a dummy and not
.\"O a header) record to an existing file, in which case
.\"O .B sadc
.\"O will try again at the next interval. Usually, the only reason a lock
.\"O would fail would be if another
.\"O .B sadc
.\"O process were also writing to the file. This can happen when cron is used
.\"O to launch
.\"O .BR sadc .
.B sadc
は
.I outfile
に書き込み、または切り詰めを行う前に、排他ロックを行う。
既存のファイルへの通常レコード (つまり、ダミーやヘッダでない) の
書き込みを除いて、ロック取得の失敗が致命的である場合、
.B sadc
は次の期間に再度ロックを試みる。
一般的ではないが、ロックが失敗する理由は、他の
.B sadc
プロセスがファイルへの書き込みを待っている場合がある。
これは
.B sadc
の起動に cron を使っている場合に起こる可能性がある。
.\"O If the system is under heavy load, an old
.\"O .B sadc
.\"O might still be running when cron starts a new one. Without locking,
.\"O this situation can result in a corrupted system activity file.
システムの負荷が高い場合、古い
.B sadc
では、cron が新たに
.B sadc
を起動する際にまだ動作している場合がある。
このような場合、ロックがないとシステム活性度ファイルが
壊れてしまう。
.IP "-S { keyword [,...] | ALL | XALL }"
.\"O Possible keywords are DISK, INT, IPV6, POWER, SNMP, XDISK, ALL, and XALL.
指定可能なキーワードは、DISK, INT, IPV6, POWER, SNMP, XDISK, ALL, XALL である。

.\"O Specify which optional activities should be collected by
.\"O .BR sadc .
.B sadc
に収集させるオプションの活性度を指定する。
.\"O Some activities are optional to prevent data files from growing too large.
いくつかの活性度は、データファイルを大きくし過ぎないように
オプションになっている。
.\"O The
.\"O .B DISK
.\"O keyword indicates that
.\"O .B sadc
.\"O should collect data for block devices.
.B DISK
キーワードを指定すると、
.B sadc
はブロックデバイスのデータを収集する。
.\"O The
.\"O .B INT
.\"O keyword indicates that
.\"O .B sadc
.\"O should collect data for system interrupts.
.B INT
キーワードを指定すると、
.B sadc
はシステム割り込みのデータを収集する。
.\"O The
.\"O .B IPV6
.\"O keyword indicates that IPv6 statistics should be
.\"O collected by
.\"O .BR sadc .
.B IPV6
キーワードを指定すると、
.B sadc
は IPv6 統計を収集する。
.\"O The
.\"O .B POWER
.\"O keyword indicates that
.\"O .B sadc
.\"O should collect power management statistics.
.B POWER
キーワードを指定すると、
.B sadc
は電源管理統計を収集する。
.\"O The
.\"O .B SNMP
.\"O keyword indicates that SNMP statistics should be
.\"O collected by
.\"O .BR sadc .
.B SNMP
キーワードを指定すると、
.B sadc
は SNMP 統計を収集する。
.\"O The
.\"O .B ALL
.\"O keyword is equivalent to specifying all the keywords above and therefore
.\"O all previous activities are collected.
.B ALL
キーワードは、上記のすべてを指定したのと同じである。
よって、上記のすべての活性度が収集される。

.\"O The
.\"O .B XDISK
.\"O keyword is an extension to the
.\"O .B DISK
.\"O one and indicates that partitions and filesystems statistics should be collected by
.\"O .B sadc
.\"O in addition to disk statistics. This option works only with kernels 2.6.25
.\"O and later.
.B XDISK
キーワードは
.B DISK
の拡張で、
.B sadc
はディスク統計に加えて、
パーティションとファイルシステム統計を収集する。
このオプションはカーネル 2.6.25 以降でのみ動作する。
.\"O The
.\"O .B XALL
.\"O keyword is equivalent to specifying all the keywords above (including
.\"O keyword extensions) and therefore all possible activities are collected.
.B XALL
キーワードは、上記の (キーワード拡張を含む) すべてのキーワードと
同じであり、指定可能なすべての活性度を収集する。

.\"O Important note: The activities (including optional ones) saved in an existing
.\"O data file prevail over those selected with option -S.
重要な注意点: 既存のデータファイルに保存された (オプションを含む) 活性度は、
オプション -S で選択された活性度より強い。
.\"O As a consequence, appending data to an existing data file will result in
.\"O option -S being ignored.
結果として、既存データファイルにデータを追加する場合、
オプション -S は無視される。
.IP -V
.\"O Print version number then exit.
バージョン番号を表示して、終了する。

.\"O .SH ENVIRONMENT
.SH 環境変数
.\"O The
.\"O .B sadc
.\"O command takes into account the following environment variable:
.B sadc
コマンドは下記の環境変数を利用する。

.IP S_TIME_DEF_TIME
.\"O If this variable exists and its value is
.\"O .BR UTC
.\"O then
.\"O .B sadc
.\"O will save its data in UTC time.
この環境変数が存在し、その値が
.B UTC
の場合、
.B sadc
はデータを UTC 時間で保存する。
.\"O .B sadc
.\"O will also use UTC time instead of local time to determine the current
.\"O daily data file located in the
.\"O .IR /var/log/sa
.\"O directory.
.B sadc
は
.I /var/log/sa
ディレクトリにある現在の日次データファイルの時間として、
ローカル時間ではなく UTC 時間を使う。
.\"O .SH EXAMPLES
.SH 例
.B /usr/lib64/sa/sadc 1 10 /tmp/datafile
.RS
.\"O Write 10 records of one second intervals to the /tmp/datafile binary file.
1 秒間隔で 10 レコードをバイナリファイル /tmp/datafile に書き出す。
.RE

.B /usr/lib64/sa/sadc -C Backup_Start /tmp/datafile
.RS
.\"O Insert the comment Backup_Start into the file /tmp/datafile.
コメント Backup_Start をファイル /tmp/datafile に追加する。
.RE
.\"O .SH BUGS
.SH バグ
.\"O The
.\"O .I /proc
.\"O filesystem must be mounted for the
.\"O .B sadc
.\"O command to work.
.B sadc
コマンドが動作するためには、
.I /proc
ファイルシステムがマウントされていなければならない。

.\"O All the statistics are not necessarily available, depending on the kernel version used.
.\"O .B sadc
.\"O assumes that you are using at least a 2.6 kernel.
使用しているカーネルによっては、すべての統計が利用可能な訳ではない。
.B sadc
は少なくとも 2.6 カーネルを使っていることを仮定している。
.\"O .SH FILES
.SH ファイル
.I /var/log/sa/saDD
.br
.I /var/log/sa/saYYYYMMDD
.RS
.\"O The standard system activity daily data files and their default location.
.\"O YYYY stands for the current year, MM for the current month and DD for the
.\"O current day.
標準システム活性度日次データファイルとデフォルトの場所。
YYYY は現在の年、MM は月、DD は日である。

.RE
.\"O .I /proc
.\"O and
.\"O .I /sys
.\"O contain various files with system statistics.
.I /proc
と
.I /sys
には、システム統計の様々なファイルが含まれる。
.\"O .SH AUTHOR
.SH 著者
Sebastien Godard (sysstat <at> orange.fr)
.\"O .SH SEE ALSO
.SH 関連項目
.BR sar (1),
.BR sa1 (8),
.BR sa2 (8),
.BR sadf (1),
.BR sysstat (5)

.I https://github.com/sysstat/sysstat

.I http://pagesperso-orange.fr/sebastien.godard/
