.\" addpart.8 -- man page for addpart
.\" Copyright 2007 Karel Zak <kzak@redhat.com>
.\" Copyright 2007 Red Hat, Inc.
.\" May be distributed under the GNU General Public License
.\"
.\" Japanese Version Copyright (c) 2020 Yuichi SATO
.\"         all rights reserved.
.\" Translated Thu Apr 16 00:44:24 JST 2020
.\"         by Yuichi SATO <ysato444@ybb.ne.jp>
.\"
.TH ADDPART 8 "January 2015" "util-linux" "System Administration"
.\"O .SH NAME
.SH 名前
.\"O addpart \- tell the kernel about the existence of a partition
addpart \- パーティションの存在をカーネルに知らせる。
.\"O .SH SYNOPSIS
.SH 書式
.B addpart
.I device partition start length
.\"O .SH DESCRIPTION
.SH 説明
.\"O .B addpart
.\"O tells the Linux kernel about the existence of the specified partition.
.\"O The command is a simple wrapper around the "add partition" ioctl.
.B addpart
は指定したパーティションの存在をカーネルに知らせる。
このコマンドは「パーティション追加」の ioctl の簡単なラッパーである。

.\"O This command doesn't manipulate partitions on a block device.
このコマンドはブロックデバイス上のパーティションを操作しない。

.\"O .SH PARAMETERS
.SH 引き数
.TP
.I device
.\"O The disk device.
ディスクデバイス。
.TP
.I partition
.\"O The partition number.
パーティション番号
.TP
.I start
.\"O The beginning of the partition (in 512-byte sectors).
パーティションの開始 (512 バイトセクタ単位)。
.TP
.I length
.\"O The length of the partition (in 512-byte sectors).
パーティションの長さ (512 バイトセクタ単位)。

.\"O .SH SEE ALSO
.SH 関連項目
.BR delpart (8),
.BR fdisk (8),
.BR parted (8),
.BR partprobe (8),
.BR partx (8)
.\"O .SH AVAILABILITY
.SH 入手方法
.\"O The addpart command is part of the util-linux package and is available from
.\"O https://www.kernel.org/pub/linux/utils/util-linux/.
addpart コマンドは util-linux パッケージの一部であり、
https://www.kernel.org/pub/linux/utils/util-linux/
から入手できる。
