.\" Copyright 1998 Andries E. Brouwer (aeb@cwi.nl)
.\" Copyright 2007 Karel Zak <kzak@redhat.com>
.\"
.\" May be distributed under the GNU General Public License
.\"
.\" Japanese Version Copyright (c) 2001 Yuichi SATO
.\"         all rights reserved.
.\" Translated Sat Feb 17 04:25:09 JST 2001
.\"         by Yuichi SATO <sato@complex.eng.hokudai.ac.jp>
.\"
.\"WORD:	readahead	先読み
.\"
.TH BLOCKDEV 8 "August 2010" "util-linux" "System Administration"
.\"O .SH NAME
.SH 名前
.\"O blockdev \- call block device ioctls from the command line
blockdev \- コマンドラインからブロックデバイスの ioctl を呼び出す
.\"O .SH SYNOPSIS
.SH 書式
.B blockdev
.RB [ \-q ]
.RB [ \-v ]
.I command
.RI [ command \&...\&]
.I device
.RI [ device \&...\&]
.br
.B blockdev
.B \-\-report
.RI [ device \&...\&]
.br
.B blockdev
.RB \-h | \-V
.\"O .SH DESCRIPTION
.SH 説明
.\"O The utility
.\"O .B blockdev
.\"O allows one to call block device ioctls from the command line.
.B blockdev
ユーティリティは、
コマンドラインからブロックデバイスの ioctl を呼び出すことを可能にする。
.\"O .SH OPTIONS
.SH オプション
.IP "\fB\-q\fP"
.\"O Be quiet.
静かにする (訳注: 余分な表示をしない)。
.IP "\fB\-v\fP"
.\"O Be verbose.
詳細に表示する。
.IP "\fB\-\-report\fP"
Print a report for the specified device. It is possible to give multiple
devices. If none is given, all devices which appear in /proc/partitions are
shown. Note that the partition StartSec is in 512-byte sectors.
.IP "\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR"
.\"O Display help text and exit.
ヘルプを表示して、終了する。
.IP "\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR"
.\"O Print version and exit.
バージョン情報を表示して、終了する。
.\"O .SH COMMANDS
.SH コマンド
It is possible to give multiple devices and multiple commands.
.IP "\fB\-\-flushbufs\fP"
.\"O Flush buffers.
バッファをフラッシュする。
.IP "\fB\-\-getalignoff\fP"
Get alignment offset.
.IP "\fB\-\-getbsz\fP"
Print blocksize in bytes.  This size does not describe device topology.  It's
size used internally by kernel and it maybe modified (for example) by
filesystem driver on mount.
.IP "\fB\-\-getdiscardzeroes\fP"
Get discard zeroes support status.
.IP "\fB\-\-getfra\fP"
Get filesystem readahead in 512-byte sectors.
.IP "\fB\-\-getiomin\fP"
Get minimum I/O size.
.IP "\fB\-\-getioopt\fP"
Get optimal I/O size.
.IP "\fB\-\-getmaxsect\fP"
Get max sectors per request
.IP "\fB\-\-getpbsz\fP"
Get physical block (sector) size.
.IP "\fB\-\-getra\fP"
.\"O Print readahead (in 512-byte sectors).
先読みの大きさを (512 バイトセクタ単位で) 表示する。
.IP "\fB\-\-getro\fP"
.\"O Get read-only. Print 1 if the device is read-only, 0 otherwise.
読み込みだけが許可されているかの情報を取得する。
デバイスが読み込みだけの許可である場合は、1 を表示する。
それ以外の場合は、0 を表示する。
.IP "\fB\-\-getsize64\fP"
.\"O Print device size in bytes.
デバイスのサイズをバイト単位で表示する。
.IP "\fB\-\-getsize\fP"
.\"O Print device size (32-bit!) in sectors. Deprecated in favor of the \-\-getsz option.
デバイスのサイズ (32ビット!) をセクタ単位で表示する。
廃止されているので、\-\-getsz オプションを使うこと。
.IP "\fB\-\-getss\fP"
.\"O Print logical sector size in bytes \(en usually 512.
論理セクタサイズをバイト単位で表示する \(en 通常は 512 バイトである。
.IP "\fB\-\-getsz\fP"
.\"O Get size in 512-byte sectors.
デバイスのサイズを 512 バイトセクタ単位で取得する。
.IP "\fB\-\-rereadpt\fP"
.\"O Reread partition table
パーティションテーブルの再読み込みを行う。
.IP "\fB\-\-setbsz\fP \fIbytes\fP"
Set blocksize. Note that the block size is specific to the current file
descriptor opening the block device, so the change of block size only persists
for as long as blockdev has the device open, and is lost once blockdev exits.
.IP "\fB\-\-setfra\fP \fIsectors\fP"
Set filesystem readahead (same like \-\-setra on 2.6 kernels).
.IP "\fB\-\-setra\fP \fIsectors\fP"
.\"O Set readahead (in 512-byte sectors).
先読み (readahead) の大きさを 512 バイトセクタ単位で設定する。
.IP "\fB\-\-setro\fP"
.\"O Set read-only. The currently active access to the device may not be affected by the change. For example
.\"O filesystem already mounted in read-write mode will not be affected. The change applies after remount.
読み込みだけを許可するように設定する。
The currently active access to the device may not be affected by the change. For example
filesystem already mounted in read-write mode will not be affected. The change applies after remount.
.IP "\fB\-\-setrw\fP"
.\"O Set read-write.
読み書きを許可するように設定する。
.\"O .SH AUTHOR
.SH 著者
blockdev was written by Andries E.\& Brouwer and rewritten by Karel Zak.
.\"O .SH AVAILABILITY
.SH 入手方法
.\"O The blockdev command is part of the util-linux package and is available from
.\"O https://www.kernel.org/pub/linux/utils/util-linux/.
blockdev コマンドは、util-linux パッケージの一部であり、
https://www.kernel.org/pub/linux/utils/util-linux/
から入手できる。
