.\" cfdisk.8 -- man page for cfdisk
.\" Copyright 1994 Kevin E. Martin (martin@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Copyright (C) 2014 Karel Zak <kzak@redhat.com>
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\"
.\" Japanese Version Copyright (c) 2001 Yuichi SATO
.\"         all rights reserved.
.\" Translated Mon Feb 26 19:13:14 JST 2001
.\"         by Yuichi SATO <sato@complex.eng.hokudai.ac.jp>
.\"
.\"WORD:	unusable	使用不可
.\"WORD:	free space	空き領域
.\"WORD:	unused		未使用
.\"WORD:	raw data	生データ
.\"
.TH CFDISK 8 "March 2014" "util-linux" "System Administration"
.\"O .SH NAME
.SH 名前
.\"O cfdisk \- display or manipulate a disk partition table
cfdisk \- ディスクパーティションテーブルの表示と操作をする。
.\"O .SH SYNOPSIS
.SH 書式
.B cfdisk
[options]
.RI [ device ]
.\"O .SH DESCRIPTION
.SH 説明
.\"O .B cfdisk
.\"O is a curses-based program for partitioning any block device.
.B cfdisk
は、ハードディスクドライブのパーティション分割をする
curses ベースのプログラムである。
The default device is
.IR /dev/sda .

Note that
.B cfdisk
provides basic partitioning functionality with a user-friendly interface.
If you need advanced features, use
.BR fdisk (8)
instead.

Since version 2.25
.B cfdisk
supports MBR (DOS), GPT, SUN and SGI disk labels, but no longer provides any
functionality for CHS (Cylinder-Head-Sector) addressing.  CHS has
never been important for Linux, and this addressing concept does not make any
sense for new devices.

Since version 2.25
.B cfdisk
also does not provide a 'print' command any more.
This functionality is provided by the utilities
.BR partx (8)
and
.BR lsblk (8)
in a very comfortable and rich way.

If you want to remove an old partition table from a device, use
.BR wipefs (8).

.\"O .SH OPTIONS
.SH オプション
.TP
.BR \-h , " \-\-help"
Display help text and exit.
.TP
.BR \-L , " \-\-color" [ = \fIwhen\fR]
Colorize the output.  The optional argument \fIwhen\fP
can be \fBauto\fR, \fBnever\fR or \fBalways\fR.  If the \fIwhen\fR argument is omitted,
it defaults to \fBauto\fR.  The colors can be disabled, for the current built-in default 
see \fB\-\-help\fR output. See also the COLORS section.
.TP
.BR \-V , " \-\-version"
Display version information and exit.
.TP
.BR \-z , " \-\-zero"
Start with an in-memory zeroed partition table.  This option does not zero the
partition table on the disk; rather, it simply starts the program without
reading the existing partition table.  This option allows you to create a new
partition table from scratch or from an sfdisk-compatible script.

.\"O .SH COMMANDS
.SH コマンド
.\"O The commands for
.\"O .B cfdisk
.\"O can be entered by pressing the corresponding key (pressing
.\"O .I Enter
.\"O after the command is not necessary).  Here is a list of the available
.\"O commands:
.B cfdisk
コマンドは、対応するキーを押すことで入力できる
(コマンドの後に
.I Enter
を押す必要はない)。
使用可能なコマンドは、以下の通りである:
.TP
.B b
.\"O Toggle the bootable flag of the current partition.  This allows you to
.\"O select which primary partition is bootable on the drive.  This command may not
.\"O be available for all partition label types.
選択しているパーティションのブート可能フラグを切替える。
このコマンドにより、ドライブ上で
どの基本パーティションをブート可能にするかを選択できる。
This command may not
be available for all partition label types.
.TP
.B d
.\"O Delete the current partition.  This will convert the current partition
.\"O into free space and merge it with any free space immediately
.\"O surrounding the current partition.  A partition already marked as free
.\"O space or marked as unusable cannot be deleted.
選択しているパーティションを削除する。
このコマンドは、パーティションを空き領域に変換し、
そのパーティションのすぐ前後にある空き領域と統合する。
既に空き領域とマークされているパーティションや、
既に使用不能と使用不可パーティションは、削除できない。
.TP
.B h
.\"O Show the help screen.
ヘルプ画面を表示する。
.TP
.B n
.\"O Create a new partition from free space.
空き領域から新しいパーティションを作成する。
.B cfdisk
then prompts you for the size of the partition you want to create.
The default size is equal to the entire available free space at the current
position.

The size may be followed by a multiplicative suffix: KiB (=1024),
MiB (=1024*1024), and so on for GiB, TiB, PiB, EiB, ZiB and YiB
(the "iB" is optional, e.g. "K" has the same meaning as "KiB").
.TP
.B q
.\"O Quit the program.  This will exit the program without writing any data to
.\"O the disk.
プログラムを終了する。
このコマンドは、データをディスクに書き込まずにプログラムを終了する。
.TP
.B s
Sort the partitions in ascending start-sector order.  When deleting and
adding partitions, it is likely that the numbering of the partitions will
no longer match their order on the disk.  This command restores that match.
.TP
.B t
Change the partition type.  By default, new partitions are created as
.I Linux
partitions.
.TP
.B u
Dump the current in-memory partition table to an sfdisk-compatible script file.
.sp
The script files are compatible between \fBcfdisk\fR, \fBfdisk\fR, \fBsfdisk\fR
and other libfdisk applications.  For more details see
.BR sfdisk (8).
.sp
It is also possible to load an sfdisk-script into \fBcfdisk\fR if there is
no partition table on the device or when you start \fBcfdisk\fR with the
\fB--zero\fR command-line option.
.TP
.B W
.\"O Write the partition table to disk (you must enter an uppercase W).  Since
.\"O this might destroy data on the disk, you must either confirm or deny
.\"O the write by entering `yes' or `no'.  If you enter `yes',
.\"O .B cfdisk
.\"O will write the partition table to disk and then tell the kernel to re-read the
.\"O partition table from the disk.
パーティションテーブルをディスクに書き込む
(大文字 W を入力しなければならない)。
このコマンドはディスク上のデータを破壊するかもしれないので、
`yes' または `no' を入力して、
書き込みを承認するか拒否するかしなければならない。
`yes' を入力した場合、
.B cfdisk
はパーティションテーブルをディスクに書き込み、
カーネルに対してディスクからパーティションテーブルを
再読み込みするように指示する。

The re-reading of the partition table does not always work.  In such a
case you need to inform the kernel about any new partitions by using
.BR partprobe (8)
or
.BR partx (8),
or by rebooting the system.
.TP
.B x
Toggle extra information about a partition.
.TP
.\"O .IR "Up Arrow" , " Down Arrow"
.\"O Move the cursor to the previous or next partition.  If there are more
.\"O partitions than can be displayed on a screen, you can display the next
.\"O (previous) set of partitions by moving down (up) at the last (first)
.\"O partition displayed on the screen.
.IR "上矢印 (↑)" ", " "下矢印 (↓)"
カーソルを前または次のパーティションに移動する。
画面上に表示できる以上のパーティションがある場合、
画面に表示されている最後 (最初) のパーティションで
下 (上) に移動することで、
次 (前) のパーティションセットを表示できる。

.TP
.IR "Left Arrow" , " Right Arrow"
Select the preceding or the next menu item.  Hitting \fIEnter\fR will
execute the currently selected item.

.PP
All commands can be entered with either uppercase or lowercase
letters (except for
.BR W rite).
When in a submenu or at a prompt, you can hit the
.I Esc
key to return to the main menu.

.\"O .SH COLORS
.SH カラー表示
Implicit coloring can be disabled by creating the empty file
.IR /etc/terminal-colors.d/cfdisk.disable .

See
.BR terminal-colors.d (5)
for more details about colorization configuration.

.B cfdisk
does not support color customization with a color-scheme file.

.\"O .SH ENVIRONMENT
.SH 環境変数
.IP CFDISK_DEBUG=all
enables cfdisk debug output.
.IP LIBFDISK_DEBUG=all
enables libfdisk debug output.
.IP LIBBLKID_DEBUG=all
enables libblkid debug output.
.IP LIBSMARTCOLS_DEBUG=all
enables libsmartcols debug output.
.IP LIBSMARTCOLS_DEBUG_PADDING=on
use visible padding characters. Requires enabled LIBSMARTCOLS_DEBUG.

.\"O .SH "SEE ALSO"
.SH 関連項目
.BR fdisk (8),
.BR parted (8),
.BR partprobe (8),
.BR partx (8),
.BR sfdisk (8)
.\"O .SH AUTHOR
.SH 著者
Karel Zak <kzak@redhat.com>
.PP
The current cfdisk implementation is based on the original cfdisk
from Kevin E. Martin (martin@cs.unc.edu).

.\"O .SH AVAILABILITY
.SH 入手方法
.\"O The cfdisk command is part of the util-linux package and is available from
.\"O https://www.kernel.org/pub/linux/utils/util-linux/.
cfdisk コマンドは、util-linux パッケージの一部であり、
https://www.kernel.org/pub/linux/utils/util-linux/
から入手できる。
.SH 翻訳者謝辞
この man ページの翻訳にあたり、
<http://www.debian.or.jp/Documents/manuals_not_sgml/cfdisk.ja.txt>
を参考にさせていただいた。
