.\"
.\" Japanese Version Copyright (c) 2020 Yuichi SATO
.\"         all rights reserved.
.\" Translated Sat Apr 18 20:44:08 JST 2020
.\"         by Yuichi SATO <ysato444@ybb.ne.jp>
.\"
.TH CHCPU 8 "July 2014" "util-linux" "System Administration"
.\"O .SH NAME
.SH 名前
.\"O chcpu \- configure CPUs
chcpu \- CPU を設定する。
.\"O .SH SYNOPSIS
.SH 書式
.B chcpu
.BR \-c | \-d | \-e | \-g
.I cpu-list
.br
.B chcpu \-p
.I mode
.br
.B chcpu
.BR \-r | \-h | \-V
.\"O .SH DESCRIPTION
.SH 説明
.\"O .B chcpu
.\"O can modify the state of CPUs.  It can enable or disable CPUs, scan for new
.\"O CPUs, change the CPU dispatching
.\"O .I mode
.\"O of the underlying hypervisor, and request CPUs from the hypervisor
.\"O (configure) or return CPUs to the hypervisor (deconfigure).
.B chcpu
は CPU の状態を変更することができる。
このコマンドは、CPU の有効化/無効化、新しい CPU の検知、
下層のハイパーバイザーの CPU の分配 (dispatch)
.I mode
の変更、ハイパーバイザーからの CPU のリクエスト (設定)、
ハイパーバイザーへの CPU の返却 (戻し設定) ができる。
.PP
.\"O Some options have a
.\"O .I cpu-list
.\"O argument.  Use this argument to specify a comma-separated list of CPUs.  The
.\"O list can contain individual CPU addresses or ranges of addresses.  For
.\"O example,
.\"O .B 0,5,7,9-11
.\"O makes the command applicable to the CPUs with the addresses 0, 5, 7, 9, 10,
.\"O and 11.
.I cpu-list
引き数をとるオプションもある。
この引き数を使って、カンマ区切りの CPU のリストを指定する。
このリストは、各 CPU アドレスとアドレスの範囲を含むことができる。
例えば、
.B 0,5,7,9-11
は、コマンドをアドレス 0, 5, 7, 9, 10, 11 の CPU に適用する。
.\"O .SH OPTIONS
.SH オプション
.TP
.BR \-c , " \-\-configure " \fIcpu-list\fP
.\"O Configure the specified CPUs.  Configuring a CPU means that the hypervisor
.\"O takes a CPU from the CPU pool and assigns it to the virtual hardware on which
.\"O your kernel runs.
指定した CPU を設定する。
CPU の設定とは、ハイパーバイザーが CPU を CPU プールから取得し、
カーネルを実行する仮想ハードウェアに割り当てることを意味する。
.TP
.BR \-d , " \-\-disable " \fIcpu-list\fP
.\"O Disable the specified CPUs.  Disabling a CPU means that the kernel sets it
.\"O offline.
指定した CPU を無効化する。
CPU の無効化とは、カーネルが CPU をオフラインにすることを意味する。
.TP
.BR \-e , " \-\-enable " \fIcpu-list\fP
Enabl.\"O e the specified CPUs.  Enabling a CPU means that the kernel sets it
.\"O online.  A CPU must be configured, see \fB\-c\fR, before it can be enabled.
指定した CPU を有効化する。
CPU の有効化とは、カーネルが CPU をオフラインにすることを意味する。
CPU を有効化する前に、CPU を設定しなければならない (\fB\-c\fR を参照)。
.TP
.BR \-g , " \-\-deconfigure " \fIcpu-list\fP
.\"O Deconfigure the specified CPUs.  Deconfiguring a CPU means that the
.\"O hypervisor removes the CPU from the virtual hardware on which the Linux
.\"O instance runs and returns it to the CPU pool.  A CPU must be offline, see
.\"O \fB\-d\fR, before it can be deconfigured.
指定した CPU を戻し設定する。
CPU の戻し設定は、ハイパーバイザーが Linux インスタンスが実行されている
仮想ハードウェアから CPU を削除し、CPU を CPU プールに返すことを意味する。
CPU を戻し設定する前に、CPU をオフラインにしなければならない (\fB\-d\fR を参照)。
.TP
.BR \-p , " \-\-dispatch " \fImode\fP
.\"O Set the CPU dispatching
.\"O .I mode
.\"O (polarization).  This option has an effect only if your hardware architecture
.\"O and hypervisor support CPU polarization.  Available
.\"O .I modes
.\"O are:
CPU の分配
.I mode
(分極化: polarization) を設定する。
このオプションは、使っているハードウェアアーキテクチャと
ハイパーバイザーが、CPU の分極化をサポートする場合にのみ有効である。
指定可能な
.I mode
は以下の通り:
.RS 14
.TP 12
.PD 0
.B horizontal
.\"O The workload is spread across all available CPUs.
負荷を全ての利用可能な CPU に分散する。
.TP 12
.B vertical
.\"O The workload is concentrated on few CPUs.
負荷を特定の CPU に集中させる。
.RE
.PD 1
.TP
.BR \-r , " \-\-rescan"
.\"O Trigger a rescan of CPUs.  After a rescan, the Linux kernel recognizes
.\"O the new CPUs.  Use this option on systems that do not
.\"O automatically detect newly attached CPUs.
CPU の再スキャンのトリガーを引く。
再スキャン後、Linux カーネルは新しい CPU を認識できる。
新しく追加された CPU を自動的に検知できないシステムでは、このオプションを使うこと。
.TP
.BR \-V , " \-\-version"
.\"O Display version information and exit.
バージョン情報を表示して、終了する。
.TP
.BR \-h , " \-\-help"
.\"O Display help text and exit.
ヘルプを表示して、終了する。

.\"O .SH RETURN CODES
.SH 返り値
.\"O .B chcpu
.\"O has the following return codes:
.B chcpu
は以下の返り値を返す:
.TP
.B 0
.\"O success
成功
.TP
.B 1
.\"O failure
失敗
.TP
.B 64
.\"O partial success
部分的に成功
.RE
.\"O .SH AUTHOR
.SH 著者
.MT heiko.carstens@de.ibm.com
Heiko Carstens
.ME
.\"O .SH COPYRIGHT
.SH 著作権
Copyright IBM Corp. 2011
.br
.\"O .SH "SEE ALSO"
.SH 関連項目
.BR lscpu (1)
.\"O .SH AVAILABILITY
.SH 入手方法
.\"O The chcpu command is part of the util-linux package and is available from
.\"O .UR https://\:www.kernel.org\:/pub\:/linux\:/utils\:/util-linux/
.\"O Linux Kernel Archive
.\"O .UE .
chcpu コマンドは util-linux パッケージの一部であり、
.UR https://\:www.kernel.org\:/pub\:/linux\:/utils\:/util-linux/
Linux Kernel Archive
.UE
から入手できる。
