.\" Copyright 1992, 1993 Rickard E. Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" May be distributed under the GNU General Public License
.\" 
.\" Japanese Version Copyright (c) 2019 Yuichi SATO
.\"         all rights reserved.
.\" Translated Fri Nov  1 14:34:33 JST 2019
.\"         by Yuichi SATO <ysato444@ybb.ne.jp>
.\" 
.TH CTRLALTDEL 8 "October 2015" "util-linux" "System Administration"
.\"O .SH NAME
.SH 名前
.\"O ctrlaltdel \- set the function of the Ctrl-Alt-Del combination
ctrlaltdel \- Ctrl-Alt-Del の組み合わせの機能を設定する
.\"O .SH SYNOPSIS
.SH 書式
.BR "ctrlaltdel hard" | soft
.\"O .SH DESCRIPTION
.SH 説明
.\"O Based on examination of the
.\"O .I linux/kernel/reboot.c
.\"O code, it is clear that there are two supported functions that the
.\"O Ctrl-Alt-Del sequence can perform.
.I linux/kernel/reboot.c
のコードでの実装に基づくと、
Ctrl-Alt-Del のシーケンスで実行できる機能が 2 つあることは明白である。
.TP
.B hard
.\"O Immediately reboot the computer without calling
.\"O .BR sync (2)
.\"O and without any other preparation.  This is the default.
.BR sync (2)
を呼び出さず、その他の準備もせずに、即時にコンピュータを再起動する。
これがデフォルトである。
.TP
.B soft
.\"O Make the kernel send the SIGINT (interrupt) signal to the
.\"O .B init
.\"O process (this is always the process with PID 1).  If this option is used,
.\"O the
.\"O .BR init (8)
.\"O program must support this feature.  Since there are now several
.\"O .BR init (8)
.\"O programs in the Linux community, please consult the documentation for the
.\"O version that you are currently using.
カーネルに対して SIGINT (割り込み) シグナルを
.B init
(これは常に PID 1 のプロセスである) に送信させる。
このオプションが使われる場合、
.BR init (8)
プログラムはこの機能をサポートしていなければならない。
Linux コミュニティでは、現在いくつかの
.BR init (8)
プログラムがあるので、使用しているバージョンのドキュメントを
参照してほしい。
.PP
.\"O When the command is run without any argument, it will display the current
.\"O setting.
このコマンドを引き数なしで実行すると、現在の設定を表示する。
.PP
.\"O The function of
.\"O .B ctrlaltdel
.\"O is usually set in the
.\"O .I /etc/rc.local
.\"O file.
.B ctrlaltdel
の機能は、
.I /etc/rc.local
ファイルで設定されることが多い。
.\"O .SH OPTIONS
.SH オプション
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
.\"O Display version information and exit.
バージョン情報を表示して、終了する。
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
.\"O Display help text and exit.
ヘルプを表示して、終了する。
.\"O .SH FILES
.SH ファイル
.I /etc/rc.local
.\"O .SH "SEE ALSO"
.SH 関連項目
.BR init (8),
.BR systemd (1)
.\"O .SH AUTHOR
.SH 著者
.UR poe@daimi.aau.dk
Peter Orbaek
.UE
.\"O .SH AVAILABILITY
.SH 入手方法
.\"O The ctrlaltdel command is part of the util-linux package and is available from
.\"O .UR https://\:www.kernel.org\:/pub\:/linux\:/utils\:/util-linux/
.\"O Linux Kernel Archive
ctrlaltdel コマンドは util-linux パッケージの一部であり、
.UR https://\:www.kernel.org\:/pub\:/linux\:/utils\:/util-linux/
Linux Kernel Archive
から入手できる。
.UE .
