.\"
.\" Japanese Version Copyright (c) 2020 Yuichi SATO
.\"         all rights reserved.
.\" Translated Tue Apr 21 00:30:36 JST 2020
.\"         by Yuichi SATO <ysato444@ybb.ne.jp>
.\"
.TH FINDMNT 8 "May 2018" "util-linux" "System Administration"
.\"O .SH NAME
.SH 名前
.\"O findmnt \- find a filesystem
findmnt \- ファイルシステムを見つける。
.\"O .SH SYNOPSIS
.SH 書式
.B findmnt
[options]
.sp
.B findmnt
[options]
.IR device | mountpoint
.sp
.B findmnt
[options]
.RB [ \-\-source ]
.I device
.RB [ \-\-target | \-\-mountpoint ]
.I mountpoint
.\"O .SH DESCRIPTION
.SH 説明
.\"O .B findmnt
.\"O will list all mounted filesystems or search for a filesystem.  The
.\"O .B \%findmnt
.\"O command is able to search in
.\"O .IR /etc/fstab ,
.\"O .I /etc/mtab
.\"O or
.\"O .IR /proc/self/mountinfo .
.B findmnt
は全てのマウントされているファイルシステムをリストするか、
ファイルシステムを検索する。
.B \%findmnt
コマンドは
.IR /etc/fstab ,
.IR /etc/mtab ,
.I /proc/self/mountinfo
を検索できる。
.\"O If
.\"O .I device
.\"O or
.\"O .I mountpoint
.\"O is not given, all filesystems are shown.
.I device
または
.I mountpoint
が指定されていない場合、全てのファイルシステムが表示される。
.PP
.\"O The device may be specified by device name, major:minor numbers,
.\"O filesystem label or UUID, or partition label or UUID.  Note that
.\"O .B \%findmnt
.\"O follows
.\"O .BR mount (8)
.\"O behavior where a device name may be interpreted
.\"O as a mountpoint (and vice versa) if the \fB\-\-target\fR, \fB\-\-mountpoint\fR or
.\"O \fB\-\-source\fR options are not specified.
デバイスは、デバイス名、メジャー:マイナー番号、
ファイルシステムのラベルまたは UUID、
パーティションのラベルまたは UUID で指定できる。
\fB\-\-target\fR, \fB\-\-mountpoint\fR, \fB\-\-source\fR が指定されていない場合、
.B \%findmnt
は
.BR mount (8)
の挙動に従い、デバイス名はマウントポイントとして解釈される (その逆もある)。
.PP
.\"O The command prints all mounted filesystems in the tree-like format by default.
このコマンドは、デフォルトでは全てのマウントされているファイルシステムを
ツリー状の形式で表示する。
.\"O .SH OPTIONS
.SH オプション
.TP
.BR \-A , " \-\-all"
.\"O Disable all built-in filters and print all filesystems.
全ての組み込みのフィルターを無効化し、全てのファイルシステムを
表示する。
.TP
.BR \-a , " \-\-ascii"
.\"O Use ascii characters for tree formatting.
ツリー形式で ascii 文字を使う。
.TP
.BR \-b , " \-\-bytes"
.\"O Print the SIZE, USED and AVAIL columns in bytes rather than in a human-readable format.
SIZE, USED, AVAIL カラムを、人が読みやすい形式ではなく、バイト単位で表示する。
.TP
.BR \-C , " \-\-nocanonicalize"
.\"O Do not canonicalize paths at all.  This option affects the comparing of paths
.\"O and the evaluation of tags (LABEL, UUID, etc.).
パスを正則化 (canonicalize) しない。
このオプションはパスの比較とタグ (LABEL, UUID など)　の評価に影響する。
.TP
.BR \-c , " \-\-canonicalize"
.\"O Canonicalize all printed paths.
全ての表示されたパスを正則化する。
.TP
.BR \-D , " \-\-df"
.\"O Imitate the output of
.\"O .BR df (1).
.\"O This option is equivalent to
.\"O .B \-o\ SOURCE,FSTYPE,SIZE,USED,AVAIL,USE%,TARGET
.\"O but excludes all pseudo filesystems.
.\"O Use \fB\-\-all\fP to print all filesystems.
.BR df (1)
の出力を模倣する。
このオプションは
.B \-o\ SOURCE,FSTYPE,SIZE,USED,AVAIL,USE%,TARGET
と同様であるが、全ての擬似 (pseudo) ファイルシステムは除く。
全てのファイルシステムを表示するには、\fB\-\-all\fP を使うこと。
.TP
.BR \-d , " \-\-direction \fIword\fP"
.\"O The search direction, either
.\"O .B forward
.\"O or
.\"O .BR backward .
検索方向を
.B forward
または
.B backward
で指定する。
.TP
.BR \-e , " \-\-evaluate"
.\"O Convert all tags (LABEL, UUID, PARTUUID or PARTLABEL) to the corresponding device names.
全てのタグ (LABEL, UUID, PARTUUID, PARTLABEL) を対応するデバイス名に変換する。
.TP
.BR \-F , " \-\-tab\-file \fIpath\fP"
.\"O Search in an alternative file.  If used with \fB\-\-fstab\fP, \fB\-\-mtab\fP
.\"O or \fB\-\-kernel\fP, then it overrides the default paths.  If specified more
.\"O than once, then tree-like output is disabled (see the \fB\-\-list\fP option).
別のファイルを検索する。
\fB\-\-fstab\fP, \fB\-\-mtab\fP, \fB\-\-kernel\fP と一緒に指定した場合、
デフォルトのパスを上書きする。
2 回以上指定された場合、ツリー状の出力は無効化される
(\fB\-\-list\fP オプションを参照すること)。
.TP
.BR \-f , " \-\-first\-only"
.\"O Print the first matching filesystem only.
最初にマッチしたファイルシステムのみを表示する。
.TP
.BR \-h , " \-\-help"
.\"O Display help text and exit.
ヘルプを表示して、終了する。
.TP
.BR \-i , " \-\-invert"
.\"O Invert the sense of matching.
マッチングの意味を逆にする。
.TP
.BR \-J , " \-\-json"
.\"O Use JSON output format.
JSON 出力形式を使う。
.TP
.BR \-k , " \-\-kernel"
.\"O Search in
.\"O .IR /proc/self/mountinfo .
.\"O The output is in the tree-like format.  This is the default.  The output
.\"O contains only mount options maintained by kernel (see also \fB\-\-mtab)\fP.
.I /proc/self/mountinfo
を検索する。
出力はツリー状の形式である。これがデフォルトである。
この出力にはカーネルによって管理されているマウントオプションのみが
含まれる (\fB\-\-mtab\fP を参照すること)。
.TP
.BR \-l , " \-\-list"
.\"O Use the list output format.  This output format is automatically enabled if the
.\"O output is restricted by the \fB\-t\fP, \fB\-O\fP, \fB\-S\fP or \fB\-T\fP
.\"O option and the option \fB\-\-submounts\fP is not used or if more that one
.\"O source file (the option \fB\-F\fP) is specified.
リスト出力形式を使う。
出力が \fB\-t\fP, \fB\-O\fP, \fB\-S\fP, \fB\-T\fP オプションで制限された場合、
またはオプション \fB\-\-submounts\fP が指定されなかった場合、
または 1 つ以上のソースファイル (オプション \fB\-F\fP) が指定された場合、
この出力形式が自動的に有効化される。
.TP
.BR \-M , " \-\-mountpoint \fIpath\fP"
.\"O Explicitly define the mountpoint file or directory.  See also \fB\-\-target\fP.
明示的にマウントポイントファイルまたはディレクトリを定義する。
\fB\-\-target\fP も参照すること。
.TP
.BR \-m , " \-\-mtab"
.\"O Search in
.\"O .IR /etc/mtab .
.\"O The output is in the list format by default (see \fB\-\-tree\fP).  The output may include user
.\"O space mount options.
.I /etc/mtab
を検索する。
出力は、デフォルトでリスト形式である (\fB\-\-tree\fP を参照すること)。
出力にはユーザー空間のマウントオプションが含まれる。
.TP
.BR \-N , " \-\-task \fItid\fP"
.\"O Use alternative namespace /proc/<tid>/mountinfo rather than the default
.\"O /proc/self/mountinfo.  If the option is specified more than once, then
.\"O tree-like output is disabled (see the \fB\-\-list\fP option).  See also the
.\"O .BR unshare (1)
.\"O command.
デフォルトの名前空間 /proc/self/mountinfo ではなく、
別の名前空間 /proc/<tid>/mountinfo を使う。
このオプションを 2 回以上指定すると、ツリー状の出力は無効化される
(\fB\-\-list\fP オプションを参照すること)。
.BR unshare (1)
コマンドも参照すること。
.TP
.BR \-n , " \-\-noheadings"
.\"O Do not print a header line.
ヘッダ行を表示しない。
.TP
.BR \-O , " \-\-options \fIlist\fP"
.\"O Limit the set of printed filesystems.  More than one option
.\"O may be specified in a comma-separated list.  The
.\"O .B \-t
.\"O and
.\"O .B \-O
.\"O options are cumulative in effect.  It is different from
.\"O .B \-t
.\"O in that each option is matched exactly; a leading
.\"O .I no
.\"O at the beginning does not have global meaning.  The "no" can used for
.\"O individual items in the list.  The "no" prefix interpretation can be disabled
.\"O by "+" prefix.
表示されるファイルシステムを制限する。
2 つ以上のオプションをカンマ区切りのリストで指定できる。
.B \-t
と
.B \-O
オプションは組み合わせて使うことができる。
.B \-t
オプションと異なる点は、各オプションが厳密にマッチすることである。
先頭に
.I no
を付けても全体には適用されない。
"no" はリストの各アイテムに付けることができる。
プレフィックス "no" の解釈は、プレフィックス "+" で無効化できる。
.TP
.BR \-o , " \-\-output \fIlist\fP"
.\"O Define output columns.  See the \fB\-\-help\fP output to get a list of the
.\"O currently supported columns.  The
.\"O .B TARGET
.\"O column contains tree formatting if the
.\"O .B \-\-list
.\"O or
.\"O .B \-\-raw
.\"O options are not specified.
出力カラムを定義する。
現在サポートされているカラムのリストを取得するには、
\fB\-\-help\fP の出力を参照すること。
.B \-\-list
または
.B \-\-raw
オプションが指定されない場合、
.B TARGET
カラムはツリー状の形式になる。

.\"O The default list of columns may be extended if \fIlist\fP is
.\"O specified in the format \fI+list\fP (e.g. \fBfindmnt \-o +PROPAGATION\fP).
\fIlist\fP を \fI+list\fP の形式で指定することで、
カラムのデフォルトのリストを拡張できる。
(例えば \fBfindmnt \-o +PROPAGATION\fP)。
.TP
.B \-\-output\-all
.\"O Output almost all available columns.  The columns that require
.\"O .B \-\-poll
.\"O are not included.
ほとんど全ての利用可能なカラムを出力する。
.B \-\-poll
が必要なカラムは含まれない。
.TP
.BR \-P , " \-\-pairs"
.\"O Use key="value" output format.  All potentially unsafe characters are hex-escaped (\\x<code>).
key="value" 出力形式を使う。
潜在的に安全でない全ての文字は 16 進数でエスケープされる (\\x<code>)。
.TP
.BR \-p , " \-\-poll\fR[\fI=list\fR]"
.\"O Monitor changes in the /proc/self/mountinfo file.  Supported actions are: mount,
.\"O umount, remount and move.  More than one action may be specified in a
.\"O comma-separated list.  All actions are monitored by default.
/proc/self/mountinfo ファイルの変更を監視する。
サポートされるアクションは以下の通り: mount, umount, remount, move.
2　つ以上のアクションをカンマ区切りのリストで指定できる。
デフォルトでは全てのアクションが監視される。

.\"O The time for which \fB\-\-poll\fR will block can be restricted with the \fB\-\-timeout\fP
.\"O or \fB\-\-first\-only\fP options.
\fB\-\-poll\fR がブロックする時間は、\fB\-\-timeout\fP または
\fB\-\-first\-only\fP オプションで制限できる。

.\"O The standard columns always use the new version of the information from the
.\"O mountinfo file, except the umount action which is based on the original
.\"O information cached by
.\"O .BR findmnt (8).
標準的なカラムは、mountinfo ファイルから得られる新しい情報を常に使う。
例外は、umount アクションであり、
.BR findmnt (8)
によってキャッシュされる元々の情報に基づく。
poll モードでは、以下に示す追加のカラムを使うことができる:
.RS
.TP
.B ACTION
.\"O mount, umount, move or remount action name; this column is enabled by default
mount, umount, move, remount アクション名。
このカラムはデフォルトで有効化される。
.TP
.B OLD-TARGET
.\"O available for umount and move actions
umount と move アクションで利用可能。
.TP
.B OLD-OPTIONS
.\"O available for umount and remount actions
umount と remount アクションで利用可能。
.RE
.TP
.B \-\-pseudo
.\"O Print only pseudo filesystems.
擬似ファイルシステムのみを表示する。
.TP
.BR \-R , " \-\-submounts"
.\"O Print recursively all submounts for the selected filesystems.  The restrictions
.\"O defined by options \fB\-t\fP, \fB\-O\fP, \fB\-S\fP, \fB\-T\fP and
.\"O \fB\%\-\-direction\fP are not applied to submounts.  All submounts are always
.\"O printed in tree-like order.  The option enables the tree-like output format by
.\"O default.  This option has no effect for \fB\-\-mtab\fP or \fB\-\-fstab\fP.
選択されたファイルシステムに対して、全てのサブマウントを再帰的に
表示する。
オプション \fB\-t\fP, \fB\-O\fP, \fB\-S\fP, \fB\-T\fP,
\fB\%\-\-direction\fP で定義された制限は、サブマウントには適用されない。
全てのサブマウントはツリー状に表示される。
このオプションはツリー状の出力形式をデフォルトで有効にする。
このオプションは \fB\-\-mtab\fP または \fB\-\-fstab\fP に対して、何も影響しない。
.TP
.BR \-r , " \-\-raw"
.\"O Use raw output format.  All potentially unsafe characters are hex-escaped (\\x<code>).
生の出力形式を使う。
潜在的に安全でない全ての文字は 16 進数でエスケープされる (\\x<code>)。
.TP
.B \-\-real
.\"O Print only real filesystems.
実際のファイルシステムのみを表示する。
.TP
.BR \-S , " \-\-source \fIspec\fP"
.\"O Explicitly define the mount source.  Supported specifications are \fIdevice\fR,
.\"O \fImaj\fB:\fImin\fR, \fBLABEL=\fIlabel\fR, \fBUUID=\fIuuid\fR,
.\"O \fBPARTLABEL=\fIlabel\fR and \fBPARTUUID=\fIuuid\fR.
マウント元を明示的に定義する。
サポートされる詳細な値は \fIdevice\fR,
\fImaj\fB:\fImin\fR, \fBLABEL=\fIlabel\fR, \fBUUID=\fIuuid\fR,
\fBPARTLABEL=\fIlabel\fR, \fBPARTUUID=\fIuuid\fR である。
.TP
.BR \-s , " \-\-fstab"
.\"O Search in
.\"O .IR /etc/fstab .
.\"O The output is in the list format (see \fB\-\-list\fR).
.I /etc/fstab
を検索する。
出力はリスト形式である (\fB\-\-list\fR を参照すること)。
.TP
.BR \-T , " \-\-target \fIpath\fP"
.\"O Define the mount target.  If \fIpath\fR
.\"O is not a mountpoint file or directory, then
.\"O .B findmnt
.\"O checks the \fIpath\fR elements in reverse order to get the mountpoint (this feature is
.\"O supported only when searching in kernel files and unsupported for \fB\-\-fstab\fP).  It's
.\"O recommended to use the option \fB\-\-mountpoint\fR when checks of \fIpath\fR elements are
.\"O unwanted and \fIpath\fR is a strictly specified mountpoint.
マウント先を定義する。
\fIpath\fR がマウントポイントファイルまたはディレクトリでない場合、
.B findmnt
は \fIpath\fR 要素を逆順にチェックし、マウントポイントを取得する
(この機能は、カーネルファイルを検索する場合にのみサポートされ、
\fB\-\-fstab\fP ではサポートされない)。
\fIpath\fR 要素のチェックをさせたくない場合、
かつ \fIpath\fR が厳密に指定されたマウントポイントである場合、
\fB\-\-mountpoint\fR オプションを使うべきである。 
.TP
.BR \-t , " \-\-types \fIlist\fP"
.\"O Limit the set of printed filesystems.  More than one type may be
.\"O specified in a comma-separated list.  The list of filesystem types can be
.\"O prefixed with
.\"O .B no
.\"O to specify the filesystem types on which no action should be taken.  For
.\"O more details see
.\"O .BR mount (8).
表示されるファイルシステムを制限する。
2 つ以上のオプションをカンマ区切りのリストで指定できる。
ファイルシステムタイプのリストには、プレフィックス
.B no
を付けて、そのファイルシステムタイプに対してアクションを
とらないようにすることができる。
より詳細は
.BR mount (8)
を参照すること。
.TP
.B \-\-tree
.\"O Enable tree-like output if possible.  The options is silently ignored for
.\"O tables where is missing child-parent relation (e.g. fstab).
可能であれば、ツリー状の出力を有効にする。
このオプションは親子関係のないテーブルでは黙って無視される (例えば fstab)。
.TP
.BR \-U , " \-\-uniq"
.\"O Ignore filesystems with duplicate mount targets, thus effectively skipping
.\"O over-mounted mount points.
複製されたマウント先を持つファイルシステムを無視する。
これにより、オーバーマウントされているマウントポイントを効率的に
スキップできる。
.TP
.BR \-u , " \-\-notruncate"
.\"O Do not truncate text in columns.  The default is to not truncate the
.\"O .BR TARGET ,
.\"O .BR SOURCE ,
.\"O .BR UUID ,
.\"O .BR LABEL ,
.\"O .BR PARTUUID ,
.\"O .B PARTLABEL
.\"O columns.  This option disables text truncation also in all other columns.
カラムの文字列を切り詰めない。
デフォルトでは
.BR TARGET ,
.BR SOURCE ,
.BR UUID ,
.BR LABEL ,
.BR PARTUUID ,
.B PARTLABEL
カラムは切り詰めない。
このオプションを使うと、全てのカラムで文字列の切り詰めを
行わなくなる。
.TP
.BR \-v , " \-\-nofsroot"
.\"O Do not print a [/dir] in the SOURCE column for bind mounts or btrfs subvolumes.
bind マウントまたは btrfs サブボリュームについて、
SOURCE カラムに [/dir] を表示しない。
.TP
.BR \-w , " \-\-timeout \fImilliseconds\fP"
.\"O Specify an upper limit on the time for which \fB\-\-poll\fR will block, in milliseconds.
\fB\-\-poll\fR がブロックする上限時間をミリ秒単位で指定する。
.TP
.BR \-x , " \-\-verify"
.\"O Check mount table content. The default is to verify
.\"O .I /etc/fstab
.\"O parsability and usability. It's possible to use this option also with \fB\-\-tab\-file\fP.
.\"O It's possible to specify source (device) or target (mountpoint) to filter mount table. The option
.\"O \fB\-\-verbose\fP forces findmnt to print more details.
マウントテーブルの内容をチェックする。
デフォルトでは、解析と利用のために、
.I /etc/fstab
を検証する。
このオプションは \fB\-\-tab\-file\fP と一緒に使うことができる。
マウントテーブルをフィルターするために、マウント元 (デバイス) または
マウント先 (マウントポイント) を指定することができる。
オプション \fB\-\-verbose\fP を指定すると、findmnt に詳細を表示させることができる。
.TP
.B \-\-verbose
.\"O Force findmnt to print more information (\fB\-\-verify\fP only for now).
findmnt により詳細な情報を表示させる
(現在のところ、\fB\-\-verify\fP にのみ有効である)。
.\"O .SH EXAMPLES
.SH 例
.IP "\fBfindmnt \-\-fstab \-t nfs\fP"
.\"O Prints all NFS filesystems defined in
.\"O .IR /etc/fstab .
.I /etc/fstab
に定義されている全ての NFS ファイルシステムを表示する。
.IP "\fBfindmnt \-\-fstab /mnt/foo\fP"
.\"O Prints all
.\"O .I /etc/fstab
.\"O filesystems where the mountpoint directory is /mnt/foo.  It also prints bind mounts where /mnt/foo
.\"O is a source.
マウントポイントディレクトリが /mnt/foo である
.I /etc/fstab
にある全てのファイルシステムを表示する。
また /mnt/foo をマウント元とする bind マウントも表示する。
.IP "\fBfindmnt \-\-fstab \-\-target /mnt/foo\fP"
.\"O Prints all
.\"O .I /etc/fstab
.\"O filesystems where the mountpoint directory is /mnt/foo.
マウントポイントディレクトリが /mnt/foo である
.I /etc/fstab
にある全てのファイルシステムを表示する。
.IP "\fBfindmnt \-\-fstab \-\-evaluate\fP"
.\"O Prints all
.\"O .I /etc/fstab
.\"O filesystems and converts LABEL= and UUID= tags to the real device names.
LABEL= と UUID= タグを実際のデバイス名に変換して、
.I /etc/fstab
にある全てのファイルシステムを表示する。
.IP "\fBfindmnt \-n \-\-raw \-\-evaluate \-\-output=target LABEL=/boot\fP"
.\"O Prints only the mountpoint where the filesystem with label "/boot" is mounted.
ラベル "/boot" が付いたファイルシステムがマウントされている
マウントポイントのみを表示する。
.IP "\fBfindmnt \-\-poll \-\-mountpoint /mnt/foo\fP"
.\"O Monitors mount, unmount, remount and move on /mnt/foo.
/mnt/foo に対するマウント、アンマウント、再マウント、移動を監視する。
.IP "\fBfindmnt \-\-poll=umount \-\-first-only \-\-mountpoint /mnt/foo\fP"
.\"O Waits for /mnt/foo unmount.
/mnt/foo のアンマウントを待つ。
.IP "\fBfindmnt \-\-poll=remount \-t ext3 \-O ro\fP"
.\"O Monitors remounts to read-only mode on all ext3 filesystems.
全ての ext3 ファイルシステムに対して、読み込みのみでの再マウントを監視する。
.\"O .SH ENVIRONMENT
.SH 環境変数
.IP LIBMOUNT_FSTAB=<path>
.\"O overrides the default location of the fstab file
fstab ファイルのデフォルトの場所を上書きする。
.IP LIBMOUNT_MTAB=<path>
.\"O overrides the default location of the mtab file
mtab ファイルのデフォルトの場所を上書きする。
.IP LIBMOUNT_DEBUG=all
.\"O enables libmount debug output
libmount デバッグ出力を有効にする。
.IP LIBSMARTCOLS_DEBUG=all
.\"O enables libsmartcols debug output
libsmartcols デバッグ出力を有効にする。
.IP LIBSMARTCOLS_DEBUG_PADDING=on
.\"O use visible padding characters. Requires enabled LIBSMARTCOLS_DEBUG.
表示される埋め文字を使う。LIBSMARTCOLS_DEBUG を有効にする必要がある。
.\"O .SH AUTHORS
.SH 著者
.nf
Karel Zak <kzak@redhat.com>
.fi
.\"O .SH SEE ALSO
.SH 関連項目
.BR fstab (5),
.BR mount (8)
.\"O .SH AVAILABILITY
.SH 入手方法
.\"O The findmnt command is part of the util-linux package and is available from
.\"O https://www.kernel.org/pub/linux/utils/util-linux/.
findmnt コマンドは util-linux パッケージの一部であり、
https://www.kernel.org/pub/linux/utils/util-linux/
から入手可能である。
