.\" Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 by Theodore Ts'o.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" This file may be copied under the terms of the GNU Public License.
.\"
.\" Japanese Version Copyright 1998 by MATSUMOTO Shoji. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Translated Wed Mar Wed Mar 11 05:54:50 JST 1998 by MATSUMOTO Shoji.
.\" Updated Sat 23 Oct 1999 by NAKANO Takeo <nakano@apm.seikei.ac.jp>
.\" Updated Tue 16 Nov 1999 by NAKANO Takeo
.\" Updated & Modified Sun Sep  2 23:23:05 JST 2001
.\"         by Yuichi SATO <ysato@h4.dion.ne.jp>
.\" Updated Sat 5 Oct 2002 by NAKANO Takeo
.\" Updated & Modified Sat Apr 17 03:04:33 JST 2004
.\"         by Yuichi SATO <ysato444@yahoo.co.jp>
.\" Updated & Modified Tue May  3 05:59:27 JST 2005 by Yuichi SATO
.\" Updated & Modified Tue Apr 21 02:56:38 JST 2020
.\"         by Yuichi SATO <ysato444@ybb.ne.jp>
.\"
.TH FSCK 8 "February 2009" "util-linux" "System Administration"
.\"O .SH NAME
.SH 名前
.\"O fsck \- check and repair a Linux filesystem
fsck \- Linux ファイルシステムのチェックと修復を行う
.\"O .SH SYNOPSIS
.SH 書式
.B fsck
.RB [ \-lsAVRTMNP ]
.RB [ \-r
.RI [ fd ]]
.RB [ \-C
.RI [ fd ]]
.RB [ \-t
.IR fstype ]
.RI [ filesystem \&...\&]
.RB [ \-\- ]
.RI [ fs-specific-options ]
.\"O .SH DESCRIPTION
.SH 説明
.\"O .B fsck
.\"O is used to check and optionally repair one or more Linux filesystems.
.B fsck
は (ひとつまたは複数の) Linux ファイルシステムをチェックし、また指定すれば修復も行う。 
.\"O .I filesys
.\"O can be a device name (e.g.
.\"O .IR /dev/hdc1 ", " /dev/sdb2 ),
.\"O a mount point (e.g.
.\"O .IR / ", " /usr ", " /home ),
.\"O or an filesystem label or UUID specifier (e.g.
.\"O UUID=8868abf6-88c5-4a83-98b8-bfc24057f7bd or LABEL=root).
.I filesys
に指定できるのは、デバイス名 (例:
.IR /dev/hdc1 ", " /dev/sdb2 )、
マウントポイント (例:
.IR / ", " /usr ", " /home )、
ファイルシステムラベルまたは UUID 指定 (例:
UUID=8868abf6-88c5-4a83-98b8-bfc24057f7bd または LABEL=root) である。
.\"O Normally, the
.\"O .B fsck
.\"O program will try to handle filesystems on different physical disk drives
.\"O in parallel to reduce the total amount of time needed to check all of them.
通常
.B fsck
は、物理的に異なるディスク上にある複数のファイルシステムを並列的に
チェックし、全ファイルシステムのチェックに要する時間を短縮しようとする。
.PP
.\"O If no filesystems are specified on the command line, and the
.\"O .B \-A
.\"O option is not specified,
.\"O .B fsck
.\"O will default to checking filesystems in
.\"O .I /etc/fstab
.\"O serially.  This is equivalent to the
.\"O .B \-As
.\"O options.
コマンドラインからファイルシステムがひとつも指定されず、
かつ
.B \-A
オプションも指定されなかった場合は、
.B fsck
はデフォルトの動作として
.I /etc/fstab
に書かれているファイルシステムを逐次的にチェックする。
これは
.B \-As
オプションを指定した場合の動作と同じである。
.PP
.\"O The exit code returned by
.\"O .B fsck
.\"O is the sum of the following conditions:
.B fsck
の返り値は、以下の状態を表す数の和となる:
.PP
.RS
.PD 0
.TP
.B 0
.\"O No errors
エラーなし
.TP
.B 1
.\"O Filesystem errors corrected
ファイルシステムのエラーが修正された
.TP
.B 2
.\"O System should be rebooted
システムをリブートする必要がある
.TP
.B 4
.\"O Filesystem errors left uncorrected
ファイルシステムのエラーが修正されないまま残っている
.TP
.B 8
.\"O Operational error
操作エラー
.TP
.B 16
.\"O Usage or syntax error
利用法・文法のエラー
.TP
.B 32
.\"O Checking canceled by user request
fsck がユーザ要求によってキャンセルされた
.TP
.B 128
.\"O Shared-library error
共有ライブラリのエラー
.PD
.RE
.PP
.\"O The exit code returned when multiple filesystems are checked
.\"O is the bit-wise OR of the exit codes for each
.\"O filesystem that is checked.
複数のファイルシステムをチェックした場合の返り値は、
チェックした各ファイルシステムの返り値に対して、
ビットごとの OR をとったものになる。
.PP
.\"O In actuality,
.\"O .B fsck
.\"O is simply a front-end for the various filesystem checkers
.\"O (\fBfsck\fR.\fIfstype\fR) available under Linux.  The
.\"O filesystem-specific checker is searched for in the
.\"O PATH environment variable. If the PATH is undefined then
.\"O fallback to "/sbin".
.B fsck
は、実際には Linux で利用できるさまざまなファイルシステムチェッカー
(\fBfsck\fP.\fIfstype\fP) への単なるフロントエンドにすぎない。
ファイルシステム固有のチェッカーは、環境変数 PATH 内でサーチされる。
PATH が定義されていない場合、"/sbin" がサーチされる。
.PP
.\"O Please see the filesystem-specific checker manual pages for
.\"O further details.
詳細はファイルシステム固有のチェッカーのマニュアルを参照すること。
.\"O .SH OPTIONS
.SH オプション
.TP
.B \-l
Create an exclusive
.BR flock (2)
lock file (/run/fsck/<diskname>.lock) for whole-disk device.
This option can be used with one device only (this means that \fB\-A\fR and
\fB\-l\fR are mutually exclusive).  This option is recommended when more
.BR fsck (8)
instances are executed in the same time.  The option is ignored when used for
multiple devices or for non-rotating disks.  \fBfsck\fR does not lock underlying
devices when executed to check stacked devices (e.g.\& MD or DM) \(en this feature is
not implemented yet.
.TP
.BR \-r \ [ \fIfd\fR ]
Report certain statistics for each fsck when it completes.  These statistics
include the exit status, the maximum run set size (in kilobytes), the elapsed
all-clock time and the user and system CPU time used by the fsck run.  For
example:

/dev/sda1: status 0, rss 92828, real 4.002804, user 2.677592, sys 0.86186

GUI front-ends may specify a file descriptor
.IR fd ,
in which case the progress bar information will be sent to that file descriptor
in a machine parsable format.  For example:

/dev/sda1 0 92828 4.002804 2.677592 0.86186
.TP
.B \-s
.\"O Serialize
.\"O .B fsck
.\"O operations.  This is a good idea if you are checking multiple
.\"O filesystems and the checkers are in an interactive mode.  (Note:
.\"O .BR e2fsck (8)
.\"O runs in an interactive mode by default.  To make
.\"O .BR e2fsck (8)
.\"O run in a non-interactive mode, you must either specify the
.\"O .B \-p
.\"O or
.\"O .B \-a
.\"O option, if you wish for errors to be corrected automatically, or the
.\"O .B \-n
.\"O option if you do not.)
.B fsck
の動作を逐次的にする。
複数のファイルシステムをインタラクティブ (対話) モードでチェックする際に有用。
(注意: デフォルトでは
.BR e2fsck (8)
の動作は対話モードである。
.BR e2fsck (8)
を非対話モードで動作させるには、
.B \-p
オプションか
.B \-a
オプションを使用する。
また非対話的にエラーを自動修復させたい場合は
.B \-n
オプションを利用する。)
.TP
.BI \-t " fslist"
.\"O Specifies the type(s) of filesystem to be checked.  When the
.\"O .B \-A
.\"O flag is specified, only filesystems that match
.\"O .I fslist
.\"O are checked.  The
.\"O .I fslist
.\"O parameter is a comma-separated list of filesystems and options
.\"O specifiers.  All of the filesystems in this comma-separated list may be
.\"O prefixed by a negation operator
.\"O .RB ' no '
.\"O or
.\"O .RB ' ! ',
.\"O which requests that only those filesystems not listed in
.\"O .I fslist
.\"O will be checked.  If none of the filesystems in
.\"O .I fslist
.\"O is prefixed by a negation operator, then only those listed filesystems
.\"O will be checked.
チェックするファイルシステムのタイプを指定する。
.B \-A
オプションが指定されている場合は、
.I fslist
にマッチするファイルシステムのみをチェックする。
.I fslist
パラメータは、コンマで区切られたファイルシステムとオプション指定の
リストである。
このコンマ区切りのリストに含まれるファイルシステムのすべてに、
否定演算子
.RB ' no '
または
.RB ' ! ',
を前置することもできる。
これにより、
.I fslist
にリストされていないファイルシステムだけがチェックされる。
.I fslist
のファイルシステムすべてに否定演算子が付けられていない場合は、
\fIfslist\fP
にリストされているファイルシステムのみがチェックされる。
(訳註: リストの一部だけに否定演算子を付けることはできない)
.sp
.\"O Options specifiers may be included in the comma-separated
.\"O .IR fslist .
.\"O They must have the format
.\"O .BI opts= fs-option\fR.
.\"O If an options specifier is present, then only filesystems which contain
.\"O .I fs-option
.\"O in their mount options field of
.\"O .I /etc/fstab
.\"O will be checked.  If the options specifier is prefixed by a negation
.\"O operator, then only
.\"O those filesystems that do not have
.\"O .I fs-option
.\"O in their mount options field of
.\"O .I /etc/fstab
.\"O will be checked.
オプション指定をコンマで区切った形で
.I fslist
に含めても良い。
これらは
.BI opts= fs-option\fR
という書式でなければならない。
オプション指定が存在すると、
.I /etc/fstab
のマウントオプションのフィールドに
.I fs-option
があるファイルシステムのみがチェックされる。
オプション指定の前に否定演算子がある場合は、
.I /etc/fstab
のマウントオプションのフィールドに
.I fs-option
がないファイルシステムのみがチェックされる。
.sp
.\"O For example, if
.\"O .B opts=ro
.\"O appears in
.\"O .IR fslist ,
.\"O then only filesystems listed in
.\"O .I /etc/fstab
.\"O with the
.\"O .B ro
.\"O option will be checked.
例えば、
.B opts=ro
を
.I fslist
に指定すると、
.I /etc/fstab
にリストされているファイルシステムのうち、
.B ro
オプションを持つものだけがチェックされる。
.sp
.\"O For compatibility with Mandrake distributions whose boot scripts
.\"O depend upon an unauthorized UI change to the
.\"O .B fsck
.\"O program, if a filesystem type of
.\"O .B loop
.\"O is found in
.\"O .IR fslist ,
.\"O it is treated as if
.\"O .B opts=loop
.\"O were specified as an argument to the
.\"O .B \-t
.\"O option.
.B fsck
プログラムへの非公式なユーザインターフェース変更に依存した
ブートスクリプトを使っている Mandrake ディストリビューションとの互換性のため、
.I fslist
にファイルシステムタイプ
.B loop
があった場合、
.B \-t
オプションの引き数として
.B opts=loop
が指定されていると仮定する。
.sp
.\"O Normally, the filesystem type is deduced by searching for
.\"O .I filesys
.\"O in the
.\"O .I /etc/fstab
.\"O file and using the corresponding entry.
通常ファイルシステムのタイプは、
.I filesys
を
.I /etc/fstab
ファイルから検索して見つかったエントリから取得する。
.\"O If the type cannot be deduced, and there is only a single filesystem
.\"O given as an argument to the
.\"O .B \-t
.\"O option,
.\"O .B fsck
.\"O will use the specified filesystem type.  If this type is not
.\"O available, then the default filesystem type (currently ext2) is used.
ファイルシステムのタイプが取得できず、かつ 1 つのファイルシステムだけが
.B \-t
オプションの引き数になっている場合、
.B fsck
はそれを利用する。
指定してあるファイルシステムタイプを利用できない場合は、
デフォルトのファイルシステムタイプ (現時点では ext2) を利用する。
.TP
.B \-A
.\"O Walk through the
.\"O .I /etc/fstab
.\"O file and try to check all filesystems in one run.  This option is
.\"O typically used from the
.\"O .I /etc/rc
.\"O system initialization file, instead of multiple commands for checking
.\"O a single filesystem.
.I /etc/fstab
に列記されているファイルシステムをすべてチェックする。
このオプションを用いれば、複数のファイルシステムに対して fsck　をひとつひとつ
単独で実行しなくてもよいため、システムの初期設定ファイルである
.I /etc/rc
中でよく利用される。
.sp
.\"O The root filesystem will be checked first unless the
.\"O .B \-P
.\"O option is specified (see below).  After that,
.\"O filesystems will be checked in the order specified by the
.\"O .I fs_passno
.\"O (the sixth) field in the
.\"O .I /etc/fstab
.\"O file.
.B \-P
オプション (後述) が指定されていなければ、ルートファイルシステムが最初にチェック
される。
その後、
.I /etc/fstab
ファイルの第 6 フィールドである
.I fs_passno
の順序にしたがって他のファイルシステムがチェックされる。
.\"O Filesystems with a
.\"O .I fs_passno
.\"O value of 0 are skipped and are not checked at all.  Filesystems with a
.\"O .I fs_passno
.\"O value of greater than zero will be checked in order,
.\"O with filesystems with the lowest
.\"O .I fs_passno
.\"O number being checked first.
.\"O If there are multiple filesystems with the same pass number,
.\"O .B fsck
.\"O will attempt to check them in parallel, although it will avoid running
.\"O multiple filesystem checks on the same physical disk.
.I fs_passno
の値が 0 であるファイルシステムは、スキップされて一切チェックされない。
.I fs_passno
の値が 0 より大きいファイルシステムは、小さい
\fIfs_passno\fP
値を持ったものを優先し、順番にチェックされる。
同じ番号が指定されているファイルシステムが複数ある場合には、
.B fsck
はそれらを並列してチェックしようとする。
しかし同じ物理ディスクにあるファイルシステムの同時チェックは避ける。
.sp
.B fsck
does not check stacked devices (RAIDs, dm-crypt, \&...\&) in parallel with any other
device.  See below for FSCK_FORCE_ALL_PARALLEL setting.  The /sys filesystem is
used to determine dependencies between devices.
.sp
.\"O Hence, a very common configuration in
.\"O .I /etc/fstab
.\"O files is to set the root filesystem to have a
.\"O .I fs_passno
.\"O value of 1
.\"O and to set all other filesystems to have a
.\"O .I fs_passno
.\"O value of 2.  This will allow
.\"O .B fsck
.\"O to automatically run filesystem checkers in parallel if it is advantageous
.\"O to do so.  System administrators might choose
.\"O not to use this configuration if they need to avoid multiple filesystem
.\"O checks running in parallel for some reason \(en for example, if the
.\"O machine in question is short on memory so that
.\"O excessive paging is a concern.
したがって、
.I /etc/fstab
に対する最も普通の設定は、ルートファイルシステムの
.I fs_passno
を 1 とし、他のすべてのファイルシステムの
.I fs_passno
を 2 とするものである。
こうすると
.B fsck
は、(効果が期待できる場合には)
自動的にファイルシステムチェッカーを同時に並列して動作させる。
何らかの理由で複数ファイルシステムの並列チェックをしたくない
場合には、システム管理者はこの設定をしてはいけない。
たとえばマシンのメモリが少なく、余分なページングが問題になる場合
などがこれにあたる。
.sp
.B fsck
normally does not check whether the device actually exists before
calling a filesystem specific checker.  Therefore non-existing
devices may cause the system to enter filesystem repair mode during
boot if the filesystem specific checker returns a fatal error.  The
.I /etc/fstab
mount option
.B nofail
may be used to have
.B fsck
skip non-existing devices.
.B fsck
also skips non-existing devices that have the special filesystem type
.BR auto .
.TP
.BR \-C \ [ \fIfd\fR ]
.\"O Display completion/progress bars for those filesystem checkers (currently
.\"O only for ext[234]) which support them.  \fBfsck\fR will manage the
.\"O filesystem checkers so that only one of them will display
.\"O a progress bar at a time.  GUI front-ends may specify a file descriptor
.\"O .IR fd ,
.\"O in which case the progress bar information will be sent to that file descriptor.
作業完了分・残り分の棒グラフをサポートしているファイルシステム
チェッカー (現在 ext2,3,4 用のものだけ) に、表示を行わせる。
\fBfsck\fR は一度にひとつのチェッカーだけが表示を行うように、複数の
チェッカーを管理する。
GUI フロントエンドにはファイルディスクリプタ
.I fd
を指定することができる。
この場合、棒グラフの情報はファイルディスクリプタに送られる。
.TP
.B \-M
.\"O Do not check mounted filesystems and return an exit code of 0
.\"O for mounted filesystems.
マウントされているファイルシステムはチェックしない。
その場合、終了コード 0 を返す。
.TP
.B \-N
.\"O Don't execute, just show what would be done.
実際には実行せず、何が行われるかだけを表示する。
.TP
.B \-P
.\"O When the
.\"O .B \-A
.\"O flag is set, check the root filesystem in parallel with the other filesystems.
.\"O This is not the safest thing in the world to do,
.\"O since if the root filesystem is in doubt things like the
.\"O .BR e2fsck (8)
.\"O executable might be corrupted!  This option is mainly provided
.\"O for those sysadmins who don't want to repartition the root
.\"O filesystem to be small and compact (which is really the right solution).
.B \-A
オプションが指定されている場合、ルートファイルシステムを他の
ファイルシステムと並列にチェックする。
ルートファイルシステムが壊れている場合には
.BR e2fsck (8)
自体が壊れている可能性もあるため、
このオプションを用いるのは安全性を損なうことになる。
このオプションは、ルートファイルシステムを小さくコンパクトな
パーティションに切りなおしたくないシステム管理者向けのオプション
である
(ルートファイルシステムを小さくコンパクトにまとめるのが正しい
解なのだが)。
.TP
.B \-R
.\"O When checking all filesystems with the
.\"O .B \-A
.\"O flag, skip the root filesystem.  (This is useful in case the root
.\"O filesystem has already been mounted read-write.)
.B \-A
オプションを用いて全てのファイルシステムをチェックする際に、
ルートファイルシステムをチェックしないようにする
(ルートファイルシステムがすでに read/write でマウントされている場合)。
.TP
.B \-T
.\"O Don't show the title on startup.
起動時にタイトルを表示しない。
.TP
.B \-V
.\"O Produce verbose output, including all filesystem-specific commands
.\"O that are executed.
\fBfsck\fP から起動されるシステム固有のコマンドを含め、詳細な表示をする。
.TP
\fB\-?\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
.\"O Display help text and exit.
ヘルプを表示して、終了する。
.TP
\fB\-\-version\fR
.\"O Display version information and exit.
バージョン情報を表示して、終了する。
.\"O .SH FILESYSTEM SPECIFIC OPTIONS
.SH ファイルシステム固有のオプション
.\"O .B Options which are not understood by fsck are passed to the filesystem-specific checker!
.B fsck が理解しないオプションは、ファイルシステム固有のチェッカーに渡される。
.PP
.\"O These options
.\"O .B must
.\"O not take arguments, as there is no
.\"O way for
.\"O .B fsck
.\"O to be able to properly guess which options take arguments and which
.\"O don't.
これらのオプションは引き数をとっては\fBならない\fP。
なぜなら、どのオプションが引き数をとるか (とらないか) を
.B fsck
が正しく判断できる方法がないためである。
.PP
.\"O Options and arguments which follow the
.\"O .B \-\-
.\"O are treated as filesystem-specific options to be passed to the
.\"O filesystem-specific checker.
.B \-\-
以降に指定したオプションと引き数は、ファイルシステム固有のオプション
として、ファイルシステム固有のチェッカーに渡される。
.PP
.\"O Please note that \fBfsck\fR is not
.\"O designed to pass arbitrarily complicated options to filesystem-specific
.\"O checkers.  If you're doing something complicated, please just
.\"O execute the filesystem-specific checker directly.  If you pass
.\"O .B fsck
.\"O some horribly complicated options and arguments, and it doesn't do
.\"O what you expect,
.\"O .B don't bother reporting it as a bug.
.\"O You're almost certainly doing something that you shouldn't be doing
.\"O with
.\"O .BR fsck .
.B fsck
は任意の複雑なオプションをファイルシステム固有のチェッカーに渡すようには
設計されていない点に注意すること。
複雑なことをやろうとするときは、ファイルシステム固有のチェッカーを直接
実行してほしい。
非常に複雑なオプションと引き数を
.B fsck
に渡した場合に、期待した動作をしなかったとしても、
.BR バグとして報告するには及ばない 。
.B fsck
にやらせるべきではないことを、あなたがやったのだから。
.\"O Options to different filesystem-specific fsck's are not standardized.
ファイルシステム固有の fsck のオプションは、標準化されていない。
.\"O .SH FILES
.SH ファイル
.I /etc/fstab
.\"O .SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.SH 環境変数
.\"O The
.\"O .B fsck
.\"O program's behavior is affected by the following environment variables:
.B fsck
プログラムの振舞いは、以下の環境変数による影響を受ける。
.TP
.B FSCK_FORCE_ALL_PARALLEL
.\"O If this environment variable is set,
.\"O .B fsck
.\"O will attempt to check all of the specified filesystems in parallel, regardless of
.\"O whether the filesystems appear to be on the same device.  (This is useful for
.\"O RAID systems or high-end storage systems such as those sold by companies such
.\"O as IBM or EMC.)  Note that the fs_passno value is still used.
この環境変数が設定されていると、
.B fsck
は指定されたファイルシステムすべてを、それらのファイルシステムが
同じデバイス上にあるように見えるかどうかを問わず、
並列にチェックしようとする。
(これは IBM や EMC などの会社から販売されているような、
RAID システムやハイエンドのストレージシステムで有用である。)
fs_passno の値が使われる点に注意すること。
.TP
.B FSCK_MAX_INST
.\"O This environment variable will limit the maximum number of filesystem
.\"O checkers that can be running at one time.  This allows configurations
.\"O which have a large number of disks to avoid
.\"O .B fsck
.\"O starting too many filesystem checkers at once, which might overload
.\"O CPU and memory resources available on the system.  If this value is
.\"O zero, then an unlimited number of processes can be spawned.  This is
.\"O currently the default, but future versions of
.\"O .B fsck
.\"O may attempt to automatically determine how many filesystem checks can
.\"O be run based on gathering accounting data from the operating system.
この環境変数は、同時に動作するファイルシステムチェッカーの最大数を
制限する。
この指定を行えば、多数のディスクを備えたシステムにおいて
.B fsck
がたくさんのファイルシステムチェッカーを同時に起動し、
システムで利用できる CPU やメモリなどの資源に
過度の負荷を与えてしまうことを避けることができる。
この値を 0 にすると、spawn するプロセス数の制限がなくなる。
現在はこれがデフォルトだが、
.B fsck
の将来の版では、OS からアカウンティングデータを取得することにより、
同時に行うファイルシステムチェックの数を自動的に決めるようになる
かもしれない。
.TP
.B PATH
.\"O The
.\"O .B PATH
.\"O environment variable is used to find filesystem checkers.
.B PATH
環境変数はファイルシステムチェッカーを探索する際に用いられる。 
.TP
.B FSTAB_FILE
.\"O This environment variable allows the system administrator
.\"O to override the standard location of the
.\"O .I /etc/fstab
.\"O file.  It is also useful for developers who are testing
.\"O .BR fsck .
この環境変数を用いると、システム管理者は
.I /etc/fstab
ファイルの標準的な置場所を変更できる。
これは
.B fsck
のテストを行う開発者にとっても便利である。
.TP
.B LIBBLKID_DEBUG=all
.\"O enables libblkid debug output.
libblkid のデバッグ出力を有効にする。
.TP
.B LIBMOUNT_DEBUG=all
.\"O enables libmount debug output.
libmount のデバッグ出力を有効にする。
.\"O .SH SEE ALSO
.SH 関連項目
.na
.BR fstab (5),
.BR mkfs (8),
.BR fsck.ext2 (8)
.\"O or
または
.BR fsck.ext3 (8)
.\"O or
または
.BR e2fsck (8),
.BR cramfsck (8),
.BR fsck.jfs (8),
.BR fsck.nfs (8),
.BR fsck.minix (8),
.BR fsck.msdos (8),
.BR fsck.vfat (8),
.BR fsck.xfs (8),
.BR reiserfsck (8)
.ad
.\"O .SH AUTHORS
.SH 著者
.nf
Theodore Ts'o <tytso@mit.edu>
Karel Zak <kzak@redhat.com>
.fi
.\"O .SH AVAILABILITY
.SH 入手方法
.\"O The fsck command is part of the util-linux package and is available from
.\"O .UR https://\:www.kernel.org\:/pub\:/linux\:/utils\:/util-linux/
.\"O Linux Kernel Archive
.\"O .UE .
fsck コマンドは util-linux パッケージの一部であり、
.UR https://\:www.kernel.org\:/pub\:/linux\:/utils\:/util-linux/
Linux Kernel Archive
.UE
から入手できる。
