.\"
.\" Japanese Version Copyright (c) 2020 Yuichi SATO
.\"         all rights reserved.
.\" Translated Tue Apr 21 20:42:46 JST 2020
.\"         by Yuichi SATO <ysato444@ybb.ne.jp>
.\"
.TH FSCK.CRAMFS 8 "April 2013" "util-linux" "System Administration"
.\"O .SH NAME
.SH 名前
.\"O fsck.cramfs \- fsck compressed ROM file system
fsck.cramfs \- 圧縮 ROM ファイルシステムを fsck する。
.\"O .SH SYNOPSIS
.SH 書式
.B fsck.cramfs
[options]
.I file
.\"O .SH DESCRIPTION
.SH 説明
.\"O .I fsck.cramfs
.\"O is used to check the cramfs file system.
.I fsck.cramfs
は cramfs ファイルシステムをチェックするために使われる。
.\"O .SH OPTIONS
.SH オプション
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
.\"O Enable verbose messaging.
詳細なメッセージ出力を有効にする。
.TP
\fB\-b\fR, \fB\-\-blocksize\fR \fIblocksize\fR
.\"O Use this blocksize, defaults to page size. Must be equal to what was set at
.\"O creation time. Only used for \-\-extract.
このブロックサイズを、デフォルトのページサイズとする。
作成時に設定された値と同じでなければならない。
\-\-extract のみと一緒に使われる。
.TP
\fB\-\-extract\fR[=\fIdirectory\fR]
.\"O Test to uncompress the whole file system. Optionally extract contents of the
.\"O .I file
.\"O to
.\"O .IR directory .
ファイルシステム全体の展開をテストする。
オプションとして
.I file
の内容を
.I directory
に展開する。
.TP
\fB\-a\fR
.\"O This option is silently ignored.
このオプションは黙って無視される。
.TP
\fB\-y\fR
.\"O This option is silently ignored.
このオプションは黙って無視される。
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
.\"O Display version information and exit.
バージョン情報を表示して、終了する。
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
.\"O Display help text and exit.
ヘルプを表示して、終了する。
.\"O .SH "EXIT STATUS"
.SH 返り値
.RS
.PD 0
.TP
.B 0
.\"O success
成功
.TP
.B 4
.\"O file system was left uncorrected
ファイルシステムのエラーが修正されないまま残っている
.TP
.B 8
.\"O operation error, such as unable to allocate memory
メモリの確保の失敗などの操作エラー
.TP
.B 16
.\"O usage information was printed
利用法が表示された
.PD
.RE
.\"O .SH "SEE ALSO"
.SH 関連項目
.BR mount (8),
.BR mkfs.cramfs (8)
.\"O .SH AVAILABILITY
.SH 入手方法
.\"O The example command is part of the util-linux package and is available from
.\"O .UR https://\:www.kernel.org\:/pub\:/linux\:/utils\:/util-linux/
.\"O Linux Kernel Archive
.\"O .UE .
fsck.cramfs コマンドは util-linux パッケージの一部であり、
.UR https://\:www.kernel.org\:/pub\:/linux\:/utils\:/util-linux/
Linux Kernel Archive
.UE
から入手できる。
