.\" Copyright 2008 Tilman Schmidt (tilman@imap.cc)
.\" May be distributed under the GNU General Public License version 2 or later
.\"
.\" Japanese Version Copyright (c) 2020 Yuichi SATO
.\"         all rights reserved.
.\" Translated Thu Apr 23 01:19:09 JST 2020
.\"         by Yuichi SATO <ysato444@ybb.ne.jp>
.\"
.TH LDATTACH 8 "July 2014" "util-linux" "System Administration"
.\"O .SH NAME
.SH 名前
.\"O ldattach \- attach a line discipline to a serial line
ldattach \- シリアル回線に回線制御 (discipline) を割り当てる。
.\"O .SH SYNOPSIS
.SH 書式
.B ldattach
.RB [ \-1278denoVh ]
.RB [ \-i
.IR iflag ]
.RB [ \-s
.IR speed ]
.I ldisc device
.\"O .SH DESCRIPTION
.SH 説明
.\"O The
.\"O .B ldattach
.\"O daemon opens the specified
.\"O .I device
.\"O file
.\"O (which should refer to a serial device)
.\"O and attaches the line discipline
.\"O .I ldisc
.\"O to it for processing of the sent and/or received data.
.B ldattach
デーモンは、(シリアルデバイスを参照する) 指定した
.I device
ファイルをオープンし、データの送受信を処理するために、回線制御
.I ldisc
を付与する。
.\"O It then goes into the background keeping the device open so that the
.\"O line discipline stays loaded.
デーモンはバックグラウンドで、デバイスをオープンし続けて、
回線制御をロードしたままにする。
.sp
.\"O The line discipline
.\"O .I ldisc
.\"O may be specified either by name
.\"O or by number.
回線制御
.I ldisc
は名前または数値で指定できる。
.sp
.\"O In order to detach the line discipline,
.\"O .BR kill (1)
.\"O the
.\"O .B ldattach
.\"O process.
回線制御を解除するには
.B ldattach
プロセスを
.BR kill (1)
すること。
.sp
.\"O With no arguments,
.\"O .B ldattach
.\"O prints usage information.
引き数がない場合、
.B ldattach
は使用法を表示する。
.\"O .SH LINE DISCIPLINES
.SH 回線制御
.\"O Depending on the kernel release, the following line disciplines are supported:
カーネルリリースに依存するが、以下の回線制御がサポートされている:
.TP
.BR TTY ( 0 )
.\"O The default line discipline,
.\"O providing transparent operation (raw mode)
.\"O as well as the habitual terminal line editing capabilities (cooked mode).
デフォルトの回線制御。
透過的な操作 (raw モード) と、編集機能を持ったよく使われる端末回線
(cooked モード) を提供する。
.TP
.BR SLIP ( 1 )
.\"O Serial Line IP (SLIP) protocol processor
.\"O for transmitting TCP/IP packets over serial lines.
TCP/IP パケットをシリアル回線上で転送する
Serial Line IP (SLIP) プロトコルプロセッサ。
.TP
.BR MOUSE ( 2 )
.\"O Device driver for RS232 connected pointing devices (serial mice).
RS232 に接続されたポインティングデバイス (シリアルマウス) のデバイスドライバ。
.TP
.BR PPP ( 3 )
.\"O Point to Point Protocol (PPP) processor
.\"O for transmitting network packets over serial lines.
ネットワークパケットをシリアル回線上で転送する
Point to Point Protocol (PPP) プロセッサ。
.TP
.BR STRIP ( 4 )
.TP
.BR AX25 ( 5 )
.TP
.BR X25 ( 6 )
.\"O Line driver for transmitting X.25 packets over asynchronous serial lines.
非同期シリアル回線上で X.25 パケットを転送する回線ドライバ。
.TP
.BR 6PACK ( 7 )
.TP
.BR R3964 ( 9 )
.\"O Driver for Simatic R3964 module.
Simatic R3964 モジュールのドライバ。
.TP
.BR IRDA ( 11 )
.\"O Linux IrDa (infrared data transmission) driver -
.\"O see http://irda.sourceforge.net/
Linux IrDa (infrared data transmission: 赤外線データ転送) ドライバ -
http://irda.sourceforge.net/ を参照すること。
.TP
.BR HDLC ( 13 )
.\"O Synchronous HDLC driver.
同期 HDLC ドライバ。
.TP
.BR SYNC_PPP ( 14 )
.\"O Synchronous PPP driver.
同期 PPP ドライバ。
.TP
.BR HCI ( 15 )
.\"O Bluetooth HCI UART driver.
Bluetooth HCI UART ドライバ。
.TP
.BR GIGASET_M101 ( 16 )
.\"O Driver for Siemens Gigaset M101 serial DECT adapter.
Siemens Gigaset M101 シリアル DECT アダプタのドライバ。
.TP
.BR PPS ( 18 )
.\"O Driver for serial line Pulse Per Second (PPS) source.
シリアル回線 Pulse Per Second (PPS) ソースのドライバ。
.TP
.BR GSM0710 ( 21 )
.\"O Driver for GSM 07.10 multiplexing protocol modem (CMUX).
GSM 07.10 マルチプレックスプロトコルモデル (CMUX) のドライバ。
.\"O .SH OPTIONS
.SH オプション
.TP
.BR \-1 , " \-\-onestopbit"
.\"O Set the number of stop bits of the serial line to one.
シリアル回線のストップビットを 1 に設定する。
.TP
.BR \-2 , " \-\-twostopbits"
.\"O Set the number of stop bits of the serial line to two.
シリアル回線のストップビットを 2 に設定する。
.TP
.BR \-7 , " \-\-sevenbits"
.\"O Set the character size of the serial line to 7 bits.
シリアル回線のキャラクタサイズを 7 に設定する。
.TP
.BR \-8 , " \-\-eightbits"
.\"O Set the character size of the serial line to 8 bits.
シリアル回線のキャラクタサイズを 8 に設定する。
.TP
.BR \-d , " \-\-debug"
.\"O Keep
.\"O .B ldattach
.\"O in the foreground so that it can be interrupted or debugged,
.\"O and to print verbose messages about its progress to standard error output.
.B ldattach
をフォアグラウンドにして、中断とデバッグを可能にする。
また、進捗についての詳細なメッセージを標準エラー出力に出力する。
.TP
.BR \-e , " \-\-evenparity"
.\"O Set the parity of the serial line to even.
シリアル回線のパリティを、偶数に設定する。
.TP
.BR -i , " --iflag " [ \- ] \fIvalue\fR...
.\"O Set the specified bits in the c_iflag word of the serial line.
.\"O The given \fIvalue\fP may be a number or a symbolic name.
.\"O If \fIvalue\fP is prefixed by a minus sign, the specified bits are cleared
.\"O instead.  Several comma-separated values may be given in order to
.\"O set and clear multiple bits.
シリアル回線の c_iflag ワードの指定されたビットを設定する。
指定される \fIvalue\fP は数値またはシンボル名である。
\fIvalue\fP の前にマイナス記号を付けると、指定されたビットがクリアされる。
カンマ区切りの複数の値を指定して、複数のビットを設定または
クリアできる。
.TP
.BR \-n , " \-\-noparity"
.\"O Set the parity of the serial line to none.
シリアル回線のパリティを、なしに設定する。
.TP
.BR \-o , " \-\-oddparity"
.\"O Set the parity of the serial line to odd.
シリアル回線のパリティを、奇数に設定する。
.TP
.BR  \-s , " \-\-speed " \fIvalue
.\"O Set the speed (the baud rate) of the serial line to the specified \fIvalue\fR.
シリアル回線の速度 (バンドレート) を指定した \fIvalue\fR に設定する。
.TP
.BR \-c , " \-\-intro\-command " \fIstring
.\"O Define an intro command that is sent through the serial line before the invocation
.\"O of ldattach. E.g. in conjunction with line discipline GSM0710, the command
.\"O \'AT+CMUX=0\\r\' is commonly suitable to switch the modem into the CMUX mode.
ldattach の呼び出しの前に、シリアル回線に送信される intro コマンドを定義する。
例えば、回線制御 GSM0710 とともに使う場合、モデムを CMUX モードに切り替えるには、
コマンド \'AT+CMUX=0\\r\' が一般には適切である。
.TP
.BR \-p , " \-\-pause "  \fIvalue
.\"O Sleep for \fIvalue\fR seconds before the invocation of ldattach. Default is one second.
ldattach の呼び出しの前に、\fIvalue\fR 秒スリープする。
デフォルトは 1 秒である。
.TP
.BR \-V , " \-\-version"
.\"O Display version information and exit.
バージョン情報を表示して、終了する。
.TP
.BR \-h , " \-\-help"
.\"O Display help text and exit.
ヘルプを表示して、終了する。
.\"O .SH "SEE ALSO"
.SH 関連項目
.BR inputattach (1),
.BR ttys (4)
.\"O .SH AUTHOR
.SH 著者
.nf
Tilman Schmidt (tilman@imap.cc)
.fi
.\"O .SH AVAILABILITY
.SH 入手方法
.\"O The ldattach command is part of the util-linux package
.\"O and is available from
.\"O https://www.kernel.org/pub/linux/utils/util-linux/.
ldattach コマンドは util-linux パッケージの一部であり、
https://www.kernel.org/pub/linux/utils/util-linux/
から入手できる。
