.\"
.\" Japanese Version Copyright (c) 2020 Yuichi SATO
.\"         all rights reserved.
.\" Translated Sat Apr 25 22:57:49 JST 2020
.\"         by Yuichi SATO <ysato444@ybb.ne.jp>
.\"
.TH LSBLK 8 "February 2013" "util-linux" "System Administration"
.\"O .SH NAME
.SH 名前
.\"O lsblk \- list block devices
lsblk \- ブロックデバイスをリスト表示する。
.\"O .SH SYNOPSIS
.SH 書式
.B lsblk
[options]
.RI [ device ...]
.\"O .SH DESCRIPTION
.SH 説明
.\"O .B lsblk
.\"O lists information about all available or the specified block devices.  The
.\"O .B lsblk
.\"O command reads the
.\"O .B sysfs
.\"O filesystem and
.\"O .B udev db
.\"O to gather information. If the udev db is not available or lsblk is compiled without udev support than it
.\"O tries to read LABELs, UUIDs and filesystem types from the block device. In this case root permissions
.\"O are necessary.
.B lsblk
は全ての利用可能なブロックデバイス、または指定されたブロックデバイスの
情報をリスト表示する。
.B lsblk
コマンドは
.B sysfs
ファイルシステムと
.B udev db
を読んで、情報を集める。
udev db が利用可能出ない場合、または lsblk が udev のサポートなしで
コンパイルされている場合、ブロックデバイスから LABEL, UUID, ファイルシステムタイプを読み込む。
この場合 root 権限が必要である。
.PP
.\"O The command prints all block devices (except RAM disks) in a tree-like format
.\"O by default.  Use
.\"O .B "lsblk --help"
.\"O to get a list of all available columns.
このコマンドは、デフォルトでは (RAM ディスク以外の) 全てのブロックデバイスを
ツリー状の形式で表示する。
全ての利用可能なカラムのリストを取得するには、
.B "lsblk --help"
を使うこと。
.PP
.\"O The default output, as well as the default output from options like
.\"O .B \-\-fs
.\"O and
.\"O .BR \-\-topology ,
.\"O is subject to change.  So whenever possible, you should avoid using default
.\"O outputs in your scripts.  Always explicitly define expected columns by using
.\"O .B \-\-output
.\"O .I columns-list
.\"O and
.\"O .B \-\-list
.\"O in environments where a stable output is required.
デフォルトの出力や、
.B \-\-fs
と
.B \-\-topology
のようなオプションによるデフォルトの出力は、変更される可能性がある。
可能な限り、スクリプト内ではデフォルトの出力を使わないべきである。
固定した出力が必要な場合、その環境では
.B \-\-output
.I columns-list
と
.B \-\-list
を使って、期待する列を常に明示的に定義するべきである。
.PP
.\"O Note that
.\"O .B lsblk
.\"O might be executed in time when
.\"O .B udev
.\"O does not have all information about recently added or modified devices yet. In this
.\"O case it is recommended to use
.\"O .B "udevadm settle"
.\"O before lsblk to synchronize with udev.
最近追加または変更されたデバイスについての全ての情報を、
.B udev
がまだ持っていない状態で、
.B lsblk
が実行される可能性がある点に注意すること。
この場合、lsblk が udev と同期する前に、
.B "udevadm settle"
を使うことが推奨される。
.\"O .SH OPTIONS
.SH オプション
.TP
.BR \-a , " \-\-all"
.\"O Also list empty devices and RAM disk devices.
空のデバイスと RAM ディスクデバイスもリスト表示する。
.TP
.BR \-b , " \-\-bytes"
.\"O Print the SIZE column in bytes rather than in a human-readable format.
SIZE カラムを人が読みやすい形式ではなくバイト単位で表示する。
.TP
.BR \-D , " \-\-discard"
.\"O Print information about the discarding capabilities (TRIM, UNMAP) for each device.
各デバイスの破棄ケーパビリティ (discarding capabilities) (TRIM, UNMAP) の情報を表示する。
.TP
.BR \-d , " \-\-nodeps"
.\"O Do not print holder devices or slaves.  For example, \fBlsblk --nodeps /dev/sda\fR prints
.\"O information about the sda device only.
ホルダーデバイスとスレーブを表示しない。
例えば、\fBlsblk --nodeps /dev/sda\fR は、sda デバイスのみの情報を表示する。
.TP
.BR \-E , " \-\-dedup " \fIcolumn\fP
.\"O Use \fIcolumn\fP as a de-duplication key to de-duplicate output tree. If the
.\"O key is not available for the device, or the device is a partition and parental
.\"O whole-disk device provides the same key than the device is always printed.
\fIcolumn\fP を重複排除 (de-duplication) のキーとして、
出力されるツリーを重複排除する。
キーがデバイスで利用可能でない場合、またはデバイスが
パーティションの場合、デバイスがいつも表示するキーではなく、
親のディスクデバイス全体で同じキーを提供する。

.\"O The usual use case is to de-duplicate output on system multi-path devices, for
.\"O example by \fB\-E WWN\fR.
一般的な使い方は、システムのマルチパスデバイスの出力の重複排除
である。
例えば、\fB\-E WWN\fR を使う。
.TP
.BR \-e , " \-\-exclude " \fIlist\fP
.\"O Exclude the devices specified by the comma-separated \fIlist\fR of major device numbers.
メジャーデバイス番号のカンマ区切りのリスト \fIlist\fR で指定されたデバイスを除外する。
.\"O Note that RAM disks (major=1) are excluded by default if \fB\-\-all\fR is not specified.
\fB\-\-all\fR が指定されない限り、RAM ディスク (メジャー番号=1) は
除外される点に注意すること。
.\"O The filter is applied to the top-level devices only. This may be confusing for
.\"O \fB\-\-list\fR output format where hierarchy of the devices is not obvious.
このフィルターはトップレベルのデバイスにのみ適用される。
これは、デバイスの階層が明確でない \fB\-\-list\fR 出力形式では、戸惑うかもしれない。
.TP
.BR \-f , " \-\-fs"
.\"O Output info about filesystems.  This option is equivalent to
.\"O .BR -o\ NAME,FSTYPE,LABEL,UUID,MOUNTPOINT .
ファイルシステムについての情報を出力する。
このオプションは
.B -o\ NAME,FSTYPE,LABEL,UUID,MOUNTPOINT
と同じである。
.\"O The authoritative information about filesystems and raids is provided by the
.\"O .BR blkid (8)
.\"O command.
ファイルシステムと RAID についての信頼できる情報は、
.BR blkid (8)
コマンドで提供される。
.TP
.BR \-h , " \-\-help"
.\"O Display help text and exit.
ヘルプを表示して、終了する。
.TP
.BR \-I , " \-\-include " \fIlist\fP
.\"O Include devices specified by the comma-separated \fIlist\fR of major device numbers.
メジャーデバイス番号のカンマ区切りのリスト \fIlist\fR で指定されたデバイスを含める。
.\"O The filter is applied to the top-level devices only. This may be confusing for
.\"O \fB\-\-list\fR output format where hierarchy of the devices is not obvious.
このフィルターはトップレベルのデバイスにのみ適用される。
これは、デバイスの階層が明確でない \fB\-\-list\fR 出力形式では、戸惑うかもしれない。
.TP
.BR \-i , " \-\-ascii"
.\"O Use ASCII characters for tree formatting.
ツリー形式に ASCII 文字を使う。
.TP
.BR \-J , " \-\-json"
.\"O Use JSON output format.  It's strongly recommended to use \fB\-\-output\fR and
.\"O also \fB\-\-tree\fR if necessary.
JSON 出力形式を使う。
\fB\-\-output\fR を使うことが強く推奨される。
また、必要であれば \fB\-\-tree\fR も使うこと。
.TP
.BR \-l , " \-\-list"
.\"O Produce output in the form of a list. The output does not provide information
.\"O about relationships between devices and since version 2.34 every device is
.\"O printed only once.
リスト形式で出力する。
デバイス間の関係の情報は提供されず、バージョン 2.34 以降では
各デバイスは 1 度しか表示されない。
.TP
.BR \-M , " \-\-merge"
.\"O Group parents of sub-trees to provide more readable output for RAIDs and
.\"O Multi-path devices. The tree-like output is required.
RAID とマルチパスデバイスの出力を読みやすくするため、
サブツリーの親をグループ化する。
ツリー状の出力が必要である。
.TP
.BR \-m , " \-\-perms"
.\"O Output info about device owner, group and mode.  This option is equivalent to
.\"O .BR -o\ NAME,SIZE,OWNER,GROUP,MODE .
デバイスの所有者、グループ、モードの情報を出力する。
このオプションは
.B -o\ NAME,SIZE,OWNER,GROUP,MODE
と同じである。
.TP
.BR \-n , " \-\-noheadings"
.\"O Do not print a header line.
ヘッダ行を表示しない。
.TP
.BR \-o , " \-\-output " \fIlist\fP
.\"O Specify which output columns to print.  Use
.\"O .B \-\-help
.\"O to get a list of all supported columns.  The columns may affect tree-like output.
.\"O The default is to use tree for the column 'NAME' (see also \fB\-\-tree\fR).
表示する出力カラムを指定する
全てのサポートされるカラムのリストを取得するには、。
.B \-\-help
を使うこと。
このカラムはツリー状の出力には影響しない。
デフォルトではカラム 'NAME' についてツリーを作る (\fB\-\-tree\fR も参照すること)。

.\"O The default list of columns may be extended if \fIlist\fP is
.\"O specified in the format \fI+list\fP (e.g. \fBlsblk -o +UUID\fP).
\fIlist\fP を \fI+list\fP の形式にすることで、カラムのデフォルトのリストを拡張できる
(例えば、\fBlsblk -o +UUID\fP)。
.TP
.BR \-O , " \-\-output\-all "
.\"O Output all available columns.
全ての利用可能なカラムを出力する。
.TP
.BR \-P , " \-\-pairs"
.\"O Produce output in the form of key="value" pairs.
.\"O All potentially unsafe characters are hex-escaped (\\x<code>).
key="value" のペアの形式で出力する。
全ての潜在的に安全でない文字は 16 進数エスケープされる (\\x<code>)。
.TP
.BR \-p , " \-\-paths"
.\"O Print full device paths.
完全なデバイスパスを表示する。
.TP
.BR \-r , " \-\-raw"
.\"O Produce output in raw format.  All potentially unsafe characters are hex-escaped
.\"O (\\x<code>) in the NAME, KNAME, LABEL, PARTLABEL and MOUNTPOINT columns.
生の形式で出力する。
NAME, KNAME, LABEL, PARTLABEL, MOUNTPOINT カラムについて、
全ての潜在的に安全でない文字は 16 進数エスケープされる (\\x<code>)。
.TP
.BR \-S , " \-\-scsi"
.\"O Output info about SCSI devices only.  All partitions, slaves and holder devices are ignored.
SCSI デバイスのみの情報を出力する。
全てのパーティションについて、スレーブとホルダーデバイスが
無視される。
.TP
.BR \-s , " \-\-inverse"
.\"O Print dependencies in inverse order. If the \fB\-\-list\fR output is requested then
.\"O the lines are still ordered by dependencies.
依存関係を逆順に表示する。
\fB\-\-list\fR 出力の場合、各行は依存関係の順のままである。
.TP
.BR \-T , " \-\-tree" [ =\fIcolumn ]
.\"O Force tree-like output format.  If \fIcolumn\fP is specified, then a tree is printed in the column.
.\"O The default is NAME column.
ツリー状の出力形式にする。
\fIcolumn\fP が指定された場合、そのカラムでツリーが表示される。
デフォルトは NAME カラムである。
.TP
.BR \-t , " \-\-topology"
.\"O Output info about block-device topology.
.\"O This option is equivalent to
.\"O .BR -o\ NAME,ALIGNMENT,MIN-IO,OPT-IO,PHY-SEC,LOG-SEC,ROTA,SCHED,RQ-SIZE,RA,WSAME .
ブロックデバイスのトポロジーを出力する。
このオプションは
.B -o\ NAME,ALIGNMENT,MIN-IO,OPT-IO,PHY-SEC,LOG-SEC,ROTA,SCHED,RQ-SIZE,RA,WSAME
と同じである。
.TP
.BR \-V , " \-\-version"
.\"O Display version information and exit.
バージョン情報を表示して、終了する。
.TP
.BR \-x , " \-\-sort " \fIcolumn\fP
.\"O Sort output lines by \fIcolumn\fP. This option enables \fB\-\-list\fR output format by default.
.\"O It is possible to use the option \fI\-\-tree\fP to force tree-like output and
.\"O than the tree branches are sorted by the \fIcolumn\fP.
\fIcolumn\fP で出力行をソートする。
このオプションは、デフォルトで \fB\-\-list\fR 出力形式を有効にする。
オプション \fI\-\-tree\fP を使って、ツリー状の出力にすることもできる。
この場合、ツリーの枝 (branch) は \fIcolumn\fP でソートされる。
.TP
.BR \-z , " \-\-zoned"
.\"O Print the zone model for each device.
各デバイスのゾーンモデルを表示する。
.TP
.BR " \-\-sysroot " \fIdirectory\fP
.\"O Gather data for a Linux instance other than the instance from which the lsblk
.\"O command is issued.  The specified directory is the system root of the Linux
.\"O instance to be inspected.  This option is designed for the testing purpose.
lsblk コマンドが実行された Linux インスタンス以外のインスタンスのデータを集める。
指定されたディレクトリは、調査する Linux インスタンスのシステムルートである。
このオプションはテスト目的に設計されている。

.\"O .SH NOTES
.SH 注意
.\"O For partitions, some information (e.g. queue attributes) is inherited from the
.\"O parent device.
パーティションについて、いくつかの情報 (例えば、キュー属性) は親のデバイスから継承される。
.PP
.\"O The
.\"O .B lsblk
.\"O command needs to be able to look up each block device by major:minor numbers,
.\"O which is done by using
.\"O .IR /sys/dev/block .
.B lsblk
コマンドは各ブロックデバイスをメジャー:マイナー番号で探せる必要がある。
これは
.I /sys/dev/block
を使って行われる。
.\"O This sysfs block directory appeared in kernel 2.6.27 (October 2008).
.\"O In case of problems with a new enough kernel, check that CONFIG_SYSFS
.\"O was enabled at the time of the kernel build.
sysfs ブロックディレクトリはカーネル 2.6.27 (2008 年 10 月) で登場した。
充分に新しいカーネルで問題がある場合、
カーネルのビルド時に CONFIG_SYSFS が有効になってるかをチェックすること。

.\"O .SH RETURN CODES
.SH 返り値
.IP 0
.\"O success
成功
.IP 1
.\"O failure
失敗
.IP 32
.\"O none of specified devices found
指定されたデバイスが何も見つからなかった
.IP 64
.\"O some specified devices found, some not found
指定されたデバイスが一部は見つかり、一部は見つからなかった

.\"O .SH AUTHORS
.SH 著者
.nf
Milan Broz <mbroz@redhat.com>
Karel Zak <kzak@redhat.com>
.fi
.\"O .SH ENVIRONMENT
.SH 環境変数
.IP LSBLK_DEBUG=all
.\"O enables lsblk debug output.
lsblk のデバッグ出力を有効にする。
.IP LIBBLKID_DEBUG=all
.\"O enables libblkid debug output.
libblkid のデバッグ出力を有効にする。
.IP LIBMOUNT_DEBUG=all
.\"O enables libmount debug output.
libmount のデバッグ出力を有効にする。
.IP LIBSMARTCOLS_DEBUG=all
.\"O enables libsmartcols debug output.
libsmartcols のデバッグ出力を有効にする。
.IP LIBSMARTCOLS_DEBUG_PADDING=on
.\"O use visible padding characters. Requires enabled LIBSMARTCOLS_DEBUG.
表示される埋め文字を使う。
LIBSMARTCOLS_DEBUG を有効にする必要がある。
.\"O .SH SEE ALSO
.SH 関連項目
.BR ls (1),
.BR blkid (8),
.BR findmnt (8)
.\"O .SH AVAILABILITY
.SH 入手方法
.\"O The lsblk command is part of the util-linux package and is available from
.\"O https://www.kernel.org/pub/linux/utils/util-linux/.
lsblk コマンドは util-linux パッケージの一部であり、
https://www.kernel.org/pub/linux/utils/util-linux/
から入手できる。
