.\" Copyright 1999 Andries E. Brouwer (aeb@cwi.nl)
.\" May be freely distributed.
.\"
.\" Japanese Version Copyright (c) 1999 NAKANO Takeo all rights reserved.
.\" Translated Sat Mar 18 2000 by NAKANO Takeo <nakano@apm.seikei.ac.jp>
.\" Updated & Modified Mon Mar 23 19:10:53 JST 2020
.\"         by Yuichi SATO <ysato444@ybb.ne.jp>
.\"
.\" This man page is a part of util-linux.
.\"
.\"WORD:	inode		i-ノード
.\"
.TH MKFS.BFS 8 "July 2011" "util-linux" "System Administration"
.\"O .SH NAME
.\"O mkfs.bfs \- make an SCO bfs filesystem
.SH 名前
mkfs.bfs \- SCO bfs ファイルシステムを作成する
.\"O .SH SYNOPSIS
.SH 書式
.B mkfs.bfs
.RI [options] " device " [ block-count ]
.\"O .SH DESCRIPTION
.SH 説明
.\"O .B mkfs.bfs
.\"O creates an SCO bfs filesystem on a block device
.\"O (usually a disk partition or a file accessed via the loop device).
.B mkfs.bfs
は SCO bfs ファイルシステムをブロックデバイス
(通常はディスクパーティションか loop デバイスでアクセスされるファイル)
上に作成する。

.\"O The
.\"O .I block-count
.\"O parameter is the desired size of the filesystem, in blocks.
.\"O If nothing is specified, the entire partition will be used.
.I block-count
引数は、ファイルシステムのサイズの希望値をブロック単位で指定する。
省略されると、パーティションの全体が用いられる。
.\"O .SH OPTIONS
.SH オプション
.TP
.BR \-N , " \-\-inodes " \fInumber\fR
.\"O Specify the desired \fInumber\fR of inodes (at most 512).
.\"O If nothing is specified, some default number in the range 48\(en512 is picked
.\"O depending on the size of the partition.
i-ノードの個数 \fInumber\fR を指定する (最大 512)。
何も指定しないと、パーティションのサイズから計算された
デフォルトの数値 (48\(en512 の間) が用いられる。
.TP
.BR \-V , " \-\-vname " \fIlabel\fR
.\"O Specify the volume \fIlabel\fR.  I have no idea if/where this is used.
ボリュームラベル \fIlabel\fR を指定する。筆者はこの利用法・利用局面がわからない。
.TP
.BR \-F , " \-\-fname " \fIname\fR
.\"O Specify the filesystem \fIname\fR.  I have no idea if/where this is used.
ファイルシステム名 \fIname\fR を指定する。筆者はこの利用法・利用局面がわからない。
.TP
.BR \-v , " \-\-verbose"
.\"O Explain what is being done.
何が行われているかを表示する。
.TP
.B \-c
.\"O This option is silently ignored.
このオプションは黙って無視される。
.TP
.B \-l
.\"O This option is silently ignored.
このオプションは黙って無視される。
.TP
.BR \-h , " \-\-help"
.\"O Display help text and exit.
ヘルプを表示して、終了する。
.TP
.BR \-V , " \-\-version"
.\"O Display version information and exit.
バージョン情報を表示して、終了する。
.\"O Option
.\"O .B \-V
.\"O only works as
.\"O .B \-\-version
.\"O when it is the only option.
.B \-V
は、単独で指定された場合にのみ、
.B \-\-version
として動作する。
.\"O .SH "EXIT CODES"
.SH 終了コード
.\"O The exit code returned by
.\"O .B mkfs.bfs
.\"O is 0 when all went well, and 1 when something went wrong.
.B mkfs.bfs
の返す終了コードは、
正常に終了した場合は 0、異常が発生した場合は 1 になる。
.\"O .SH "SEE ALSO"
.SH 関連項目
.BR mkfs (8)
.\"O .SH AVAILABILITY
.SH 入手方法
.\"O The mkfs.bfs command is part of the util-linux package and is available from
.\"O https://www.kernel.org/pub/linux/utils/util-linux/.
mkfs.bfs コマンドは util-linux パッケージの一部であり、
https://www.kernel.org/pub/linux/utils/util-linux/
から入手できる。
