.\" This man page is a part of util-linux.
.\"
.\" Japanese Version Copyright (c) 2000 NAKANO Takeo all rights reserved.
.\" Translated Wed Jun 14 2000 by NAKANO Takeo <nakano@apm.seikei.ac.jp>
.\" Updated & Modified Wed Mar 25 00:56:04 JST 2020
.\"         by Yuichi SATO <ysato444@ybb.ne.jp>
.\"
.TH PIVOT_ROOT 8 "August 2011" "util-linux" "System Administration"
.\"O .SH NAME
.\"O pivot_root \- change the root filesystem
.SH 名前
pivot_root \- root ファイルシステムを変更する
.\"O .SH SYNOPSIS
.SH 書式
.B pivot_root
.I new_root put_old
.\"O .SH DESCRIPTION
.SH 説明
.\"O \fBpivot_root\fP moves the root file system of the current process to the
.\"O directory \fIput_old\fP and makes \fInew_root\fP the new root file system.
.\"O Since \fBpivot_root\fP(8) simply calls \fBpivot_root\fP(2), we refer to
.\"O the man page of the latter for further details.
.B pivot_root
はカレントプロセスの root ファイルシステムを
.I put_old
ディレクトリに移動し、
.I new_root
を新しい root ファイルシステムにする。
.BR pivot_root (8)
は
.BR pivot_root (2)
を呼び出しているだけなので、詳細は後者の man ページにあたって欲しい。

.\"O Note that, depending on the implementation of \fBpivot_root\fP, root and
.\"O cwd of the caller may or may not change. The following is a sequence for
.\"O invoking \fBpivot_root\fP that works in either case, assuming that
.\"O \fBpivot_root\fP and \fBchroot\fP are in the current \fBPATH\fP:
呼び出しプロセスの root とカレントワーキングディレクトリ (cwd) は
.B pivot_root
の実装に依存して変わったり変わらなかったりする。
以下はどちらの場合にも動作する
.B pivot_root
の起動方法だが、
.BR pivot_root " と " chroot " の両方が現在の " PATH
に入っている必要がある。
.sp
cd \fInew_root\fP
.br
pivot_root . \fIput_old\fP
.br
exec chroot . \fIcommand\fP
.sp
.\"O Note that \fBchroot\fP must be available under the old root and under the new
.\"O root, because \fBpivot_root\fP may or may not have implicitly changed the
.\"O root directory of the shell.
.B chroot
は古い root と新しい root の両方で使えなければならない。
なぜなら
.B pivot_root
がシェルの root ディレクトリを暗黙のうちに変更するかどうかは
わからないからである。

.\"O Note that \fBexec chroot\fP changes the running executable, which is
.\"O necessary if the old root directory should be unmounted afterwards.
.\"O Also note that standard input, output, and error may still point to a
.\"O device on the old root file system, keeping it busy. They can easily be
.\"O changed when invoking \fBchroot\fP (see below; note the absence of
.\"O leading slashes to make it work whether \fBpivot_root\fP has changed the
.\"O shell's root or not).
.B exec chroot
は動作している実行ファイルを変更する。
これは後で古い root ディレクトリがアンマウントされるために必要なのである。
また標準入力・標準出力・標準エラー出力が古い root ファイルシステムの
デバイスを指していて、 root ファイルシステムを
busy 状態にするかもしれない。
これらは
.B chroot
を実行するときに簡単に変更できる (以下を参照。
先頭のスラッシュがないので (相対パスで指定しているので)、
.B pivot_root
がシェルの root を変更する場合でもしない場合でも動作することに注目。)
.\"O .SH OPTIONS
.SH オプション
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
.\"O Display version information and exit.
バージョン情報を表示して、終了する。
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
.\"O Display help text and exit.
ヘルプを表示して、終了する。
.\"O .SH EXAMPLES
.SH 例
.\"O Change the root file system to /dev/hda1 from an interactive shell:
対話シェルから root ファイルシステムを /dev/hda1 に変更する:
.sp
.nf
mount /dev/hda1 /new-root
cd /new-root
pivot_root . old-root
exec chroot . sh <dev/console >dev/console 2>&1
umount /old-root
.fi
.sp
.\"O Mount the new root file system over NFS from 10.0.0.1:/my_root and run
.\"O \fBinit\fP:
新しい root ファイルシステムを 10.0.0.1:/my_root から
NFS でマウントし、
.B init
を起動する:
.sp
.nf
ifconfig lo 127.0.0.1 up   # for portmap
# configure Ethernet or such
portmap   # for lockd (implicitly started by mount)
mount -o ro 10.0.0.1:/my_root /mnt
killall portmap   # portmap keeps old root busy
cd /mnt
pivot_root . old_root
exec chroot . sh -c 'umount /old_root; exec /sbin/init' \\
  <dev/console >dev/console 2>&1
.fi
.\"O .SH "SEE ALSO"
.SH 関連項目
.BR chroot (1),
.BR pivot_root (2),
.BR mount (8),
.BR switch_root (8),
.BR umount (8)
.\"O .SH AVAILABILITY
.SH 入手方法
.\"O The pivot_root command is part of the util-linux package and is available from
.\"O https://www.kernel.org/pub/linux/utils/util-linux/.
pivot_root コマンドは util-linux パッケージの一部であり、
https://www.kernel.org/pub/linux/utils/util-linux/
から入手できる。
