.\"
.\" Japanese Version Copyright (c) 2020 Yuichi SATO
.\"         all rights reserved.
.\" Translated Mon Apr 27 23:39:47 JST 2020
.\"         by Yuichi SATO <ysato444@ybb.ne.jp>
.\"
.TH READPROFILE "8" "October 2011" "util-linux" "System Administration"
.\"O .SH NAME
.SH 名前
.\"O readprofile \- read kernel profiling information
readprofile \- カーネルのプロファイル情報を読み込む。
.\"O .SH SYNOPSIS
.SH 書式
.B readprofile
[options]
.\"O .SH VERSION
.SH バージョン
.\"O This manpage documents version 2.0 of the program.
この man ページはプログラムのバージョン 2.0 についてドキュメント化している。
.\"O .SH DESCRIPTION
.SH 説明
.LP
.\"O The
.\"O .B readprofile
.\"O command uses the
.\"O .I /proc/profile
.\"O information to print ascii data on standard output.  The output is
.\"O organized in three columns: the first is the number of clock ticks,
.\"O the second is the name of the C function in the kernel where those
.\"O many ticks occurred, and the third is the normalized `load' of the
.\"O procedure, calculated as a ratio between the number of ticks and the
.\"O length of the procedure.  The output is filled with blanks to ease
.\"O readability.
.B readprofile
コマンドは
.I /proc/profile
の情報を使い、ASCII データを標準出力に表示する。
出力は 3 列から構成される。
1 列目はクロックティック (clock ticks) 数、
2 列目はそのティックス数が発生したカーネルの C 言語の関数名、
3 列目はプロシージャの正規化した「負荷」の値であり、
ティックス数とプロシージャの長さの割合である。
出力は、読みやすいように、空白で埋められる。
.\"O .SH OPTIONS
.SH オプション
.TP
\fB\-a\fR, \fB\-\-all\fR
.\"O Print all symbols in the mapfile.  By default the procedures with
.\"O reported ticks are not printed.
マップファイル内の全てのシンボルを表示する。
デフォルトでは、レポートされるティックスのプロシージャは
表示されない。
.TP
\fB\-b\fR, \fB\-\-histbin\fR
.\"O Print individual histogram-bin counts.
各ヒストグラムの区間のカウントを表示する。
.TP
\fB\-i\fR, \fB\-\-info\fR
.\"O Info.  This makes
.\"O .B readprofile
.\"O only print the profiling step used by the kernel.  The profiling step
.\"O is the resolution of the profiling buffer, and is chosen during
.\"O kernel configuration (through `make config'), or in the kernel's
.\"O command line.  If the
.\"O .B \-t
.\"O (terse) switch is used together with
.\"O .B \-i
.\"O only the decimal number is printed.
情報。
このオプションを指定すると、
.B readprofile
はカーネルによって使われるプロファイリングステップのみを表示する。
プロファイリングステップは、プロファイリングバッファの精度であり、
(`make config' による) カーネル設定、またはカーネルのコマンドラインで選択される。
.B \-t
(terse: 簡略) スイッチが
.B \-i
とともに使われた場合、10 進数の値のみが表示される。
.TP
\fB\-m\fR, \fB\-\-mapfile\fR \fImapfile\fR
.\"O Specify a mapfile, which by default is
.\"O .IR /usr/src/linux/System.map .
.\"O You should specify the map file on cmdline if your current kernel
.\"O isn't the last one you compiled, or if you keep System.map elsewhere.
.\"O If the name of the map file ends with `.gz' it is decompressed on the
.\"O fly.
マップファイルを指定する。
デフォルトは
.I /usr/src/linux/System.map
である。
現在のカーネルが最後にコンパイルしたものでない場合、
または System.map をどこか他の場所に置いている場合、
マップファイルをコマンドラインで指定すべきである。
マップファイル名が `.gz' で終わっている場合、自動で展開される。
.TP
\fB\-M\fR, \fB\-\-multiplier\fR \fImultiplier\fR
.\"O On some architectures it is possible to alter the frequency at which
.\"O the kernel delivers profiling interrupts to each CPU.  This option
.\"O allows you to set the frequency, as a multiplier of the system clock
.\"O frequency, HZ. Linux 2.6.16 dropped multiplier support for most systems.
.\"O This option also resets the profiling buffer, and requires superuser
.\"O privileges.
アーキテクチャによっては、カーネルが各 CPU で行うプロファイリング割り込みの
周期を変更することができる。
このオプションでは、割り込みの周期を、システムクロックの周波数の
倍数に設定できる (HZ)。
Linux 2.6.16 では多くのシステムで倍数のサポートをなくした。
このオプションはプロファイリングバッファのリセットも行い、
スーパーユーザー権限が必要である。
.TP
\fB\-p\fR, \fB\-\-profile\fR \fIpro-file\fR
Specify a different profiling buffer, which by default is
.IR /proc/profile .
Using a different pro-file is useful if you want to `freeze' the
kernel profiling at some time and read it later.  The
.I /proc/profile
file can be copied using `cat' or `cp'.  There is no more support for
compressed profile buffers, like in
.B readprofile-1.1,
because the program needs to know the size of the buffer in advance.
.TP
\fB\-r\fR, \fB\-\-reset\fR
Reset the profiling buffer.  This can only be invoked by root,
because
.I /proc/profile
is readable by everybody but writable only by the superuser.
However, you can make
.B readprofile
set-user-ID 0, in order to reset the buffer without gaining privileges.
.TP
\fB\-s, \fB\-\-counters\fR
Print individual counters within functions.
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
Verbose.  The output is organized in four columns and filled with
blanks.  The first column is the RAM address of a kernel function,
the second is the name of the function, the third is the number of
clock ticks and the last is the normalized load.
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Display version information and exit.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Display help text and exit.
.SH EXAMPLES
Browse the profiling buffer ordering by clock ticks:
.nf
   readprofile | sort -nr | less

.fi
Print the 20 most loaded procedures:
.nf
   readprofile | sort -nr +2 | head -20

.fi
Print only filesystem profile:
.nf
   readprofile | grep _ext2

.fi
Look at all the kernel information, with ram addresses:
.nf
   readprofile -av | less

.fi
Browse a `frozen' profile buffer for a non current kernel:
.nf
   readprofile -p ~/profile.freeze -m /zImage.map.gz

.fi
Request profiling at 2kHz per CPU, and reset the profiling buffer:
.nf
   sudo readprofile -M 20
.fi
.SH BUGS
.LP
.B readprofile
only works with a 1.3.x or newer kernel, because
.I /proc/profile
changed in the step from 1.2 to 1.3
.LP
This program only works with ELF kernels.  The change for a.out
kernels is trivial, and left as an exercise to the a.out user.
.LP
To enable profiling, the kernel must be rebooted, because no
profiling module is available, and it wouldn't be easy to build.  To
enable profiling, you can specify "profile=2" (or another number) on
the kernel commandline.  The number you specify is the two-exponent
used as profiling step.
.LP
Profiling is disabled when interrupts are inhibited.  This means that
many profiling ticks happen when interrupts are re-enabled.  Watch
out for misleading information.
.SH FILES
.nf
/proc/profile              A binary snapshot of the profiling buffer.
/usr/src/linux/System.map  The symbol table for the kernel.
/usr/src/linux/*           The program being profiled :-)
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
The readprofile command is part of the util-linux package and is
available from
.UR https://\:www.kernel.org\:/pub\:/linux\:/utils\:/util-linux/
Linux Kernel Archive
.UE .
