.\" resizepart.8 -- man page for resizepart
.\" Copyright 2012 Vivek Goyal <vgoyal@redhat.com>
.\" Copyright 2012 Red Hat, Inc.
.\" May be distributed under the GNU General Public License
.\"
.\" Japanese Version Copyright (c) 2020 Yuichi SATO
.\"         all rights reserved.
.\" Translated Wed Apr 29 17:52:33 JST 2020
.\"         by Yuichi SATO <ysato444@ybb.ne.jp>
.\"
.TH RESIZEPART 8 "January 2015" "util-linux" "System Administration"
.\"O .SH NAME
.SH 名前
.\"O resizepart \- tell the kernel about the new size of a partition
resizepart \- パーティションの新しいサイズをカーネルに知らせる。
.\"O .SH SYNOPSIS
.SH 書式
.B resizepart
.I device partition length
.\"O .SH DESCRIPTION
.SH 説明
.\"O .B resizepart
.\"O tells the Linux kernel about the new size of the specified partition.
.\"O The command is a simple wrapper around the "resize partition" ioctl.
.B resizepart
はパーティションの新しいサイズを Linux カーネルに知らせる。
このコマンドは「パーティションのサイズ変更」の ioctl の簡単なラッパーである。

.\"O This command doesn't manipulate partitions on a block device.
このコマンドはブロックデバイス上のパーティションを操作しない。

.\"O .SH PARAMETERS
.SH 引き数
.TP
.I device
.\"O The disk device.
ディスクデバイス。
.TP
.I partition
.\"O The partition number.
パーティション番号。
.TP
.I length
.\"O The new length of the partition (in 512-byte sectors).
パーティションの新しい長さ (512 バイトセクタ単位)。

.\"O .SH SEE ALSO
.SH 関連項目
.BR addpart (8),
.BR delpart (8),
.BR fdisk (8),
.BR parted (8),
.BR partprobe (8),
.BR partx (8)
.\"O .SH AVAILABILITY
.SH 入手方法
.\"O The resizepart command is part of the util-linux package and is available from
.\"O https://www.kernel.org/pub/linux/utils/util-linux/.
resizepart コマンドは util-linux パッケージの一部であり、
https://www.kernel.org/pub/linux/utils/util-linux/
から入手できる。
