.\" Copyright (c) 2007, SUSE LINUX Products GmbH
.\"                     Bernhard Walle <bwalle@suse.de>
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\" as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
.\" of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA
.\" 02110-1301, USA.
.\"
.\" Japanese Version Copyright (c) 2020 Yuichi SATO
.\"         all rights reserved.
.\" Translated Wed Apr 29 22:15:00 JST 2020
.\"         by Yuichi SATO <ysato444@ybb.ne.jp>
.\"
.TH RTCWAKE 8 "June 2015" "util-linux" "System Administration"
.\"O .SH NAME
.SH 名前
.\"O rtcwake \- enter a system sleep state until specified wakeup time
rtcwake \- 指定されたウェイクアップ (wakeup) 時刻までシステムスリープ状態にする。
.\"O .SH SYNOPSIS
.SH 書式
.B rtcwake
[options]
.RB [ \-d
.IR device ]
.RB [ \-m
.IR standby_mode ]
.RB { "\-s \fIseconds\fP" | "\-t \fItime_t\fP" }
.\"O .SH DESCRIPTION
.SH 説明
.\"O This program is used to enter a system sleep state and to automatically
.\"O wake from it at a specified time.
このプログラムは、システムスリープ状態にするのに使われ、指定した時刻に
自動的にウェイク (起動) される。
.PP
.\"O This uses cross-platform Linux interfaces to enter a system sleep state, and
.\"O leave it no later than a specified time.  It uses any RTC framework driver that
.\"O supports standard driver model wakeup flags.
このプログラムは、システムスリープ状態にして、指定した時刻ちょうどに
スリープ状態を解除するための、クロスプラットフォームの Linux インタフェースとして使われる。
これは、ウェイクアップフラグの標準的なドライバーモデルをサポートする、
RTC フレームワークを使う。
.PP
.\"O This is normally used like the old \fBapmsleep\fP utility, to wake from a suspend
.\"O state like ACPI S1 (standby) or S3 (suspend-to-RAM).  Most platforms can
.\"O implement those without analogues of BIOS, APM, or ACPI.
これは通常、昔の \fBapmsleep\fP ユーティリティのように使われ、
ACPI S1 (スタンバイ) または S3 (RAM へのサスペンド) 状態から
ウェイクさせるのに使われる。
多くのプラットフォームでは BIOS, APM, ACPI を使わずに実装されている。
.PP
.\"O On some systems, this can also be used like \fBnvram-wakeup\fP, waking from states
.\"O like ACPI S4 (suspend to disk).  Not all systems have persistent media that are
.\"O appropriate for such suspend modes.
システムによっては、\fBnvram-wakeup\fP のように使われ、
ACPI S4 (ディスクへのサスペンド) 状態からウェイクさせるのに使われる。
全てのシステムに、このようなサスペンドモードに適した永続化メディアが
あるわけではない。
.PP
.\"O Note that alarm functionality depends on hardware; not every RTC is able to setup
.\"O an alarm up to 24 hours in the future.
アラーム機能はハードウェアに依存する点に注意すること。
全ての RTC で将来 24 時間のアラームが設定できるわけではない。
.PP
.\"O The suspend setup may be interrupted by active hardware; for example wireless USB
.\"O input devices that continue to send events for some fraction of a second after the
.\"O return key is pressed.
サスペンド設定はアクティブなハードウェアで割り込まれる可能性がある。
例えば、ワイヤレス入力デバイスは、リターンキーが押された後、
数秒間に渡ってイベントを送信し続ける。
.\"O .B rtcwake
.\"O tries to avoid this problem and it waits to terminal to settle down before
.\"O entering a system sleep.
.B rtcwake
は、この問題を避けて、システムスリープに入る前に端末への入力が
落ち着くのを待つ。

.\"O .SH OPTIONS
.SH オプション
.TP
.BR \-A , " \-\-adjfile " \fIfile
.\"O Specify an alternative path to the adjust file.
調整用のファイルの別のパスを指定する。
.TP
.BR \-a , " \-\-auto"
.\"O Read the clock mode (whether the hardware clock is set to UTC or local time)
.\"O from the \fIadjtime\fP file, where
.\"O .BR hwclock (8)
.\"O stores that information.  This is the default.
.BR hwclock (8)
が情報を格納する \fIadjtime\fP ファイルから
クロックモード (ハードウェアクロックが UTC またはローカル時刻のどちらに設定されているか)　を
読み取る。
これがデフォルトである。
.TP
.BR \-\-date " \fItimestamp"
.\"O Set the wakeup time to the value of the timestamp.  Format of the
.\"O timestamp can be any of the following:
ウェイクアップ時刻を timestamp の値に設定する。
timestamp の形式は以下のいずれかである:
.TS
tab(|);
l2 l.
YYYYMMDDhhmmss
YYYY-MM-DD hh:mm:ss
.\"O YYYY-MM-DD hh:mm|(seconds will be set to 00)
.\"O YYYY-MM-DD|(time will be set to 00:00:00)
.\"O hh:mm:ss|(date will be set to today)
.\"O hh:mm|(date will be set to today, seconds to 00)
.\"O tomorrow|(time is set to 00:00:00)
YYYY-MM-DD hh:mm|(秒は 00 に設定される)
YYYY-MM-DD|(時刻は 00:00:00 に設定される)
hh:mm:ss|(日付は当日に設定される)
hh:mm|(日付は当日に設定され、秒は 00 に設定される)
tomorrow|(時刻は 00:00:00 に設定される)
+5min
.TE
.TP
.BR \-d , " \-\-device " \fIdevice
.\"O Use the specified \fIdevice\fP instead of \fBrtc0\fP as realtime clock.
.\"O This option is only relevant if your system has more than one RTC.
.\"O You may specify \fBrtc1\fP, \fBrtc2\fP, ... here.
リアルタイムクロックとして、\fBrtc0\fP の代わりに指定した \fIdevice\fP を使う。
このオプションはシステムに 2 つ以上の RTC がある場合にのみ利用価値がある。
ここには \fBrtc1\fP, \fBrtc2\fP, ... などを指定できる。
.TP
.BR \-l , " \-\-local"
.\"O Assume that the hardware clock is set to local time, regardless of the
.\"O contents of the \fIadjtime\fP file.
\fIadjtime\fP ファイルの内容に関わらず、
ハードウェアクロックがローカル時刻に設定されていると仮定する。
.TP
.B \-\-list\-modes
.\"O List available \-\-mode option arguments.
利用可能な \-\-mode オプションの引き数をリスト表示する。
.TP
.BR \-m , " \-\-mode " \fImode
.\"O Go into the given standby state.  Valid values for \fImode\fP are:
指定したスタンパイ状態にする。指定可能な \fImode\fP は以下の通り:
.RS
.TP
.B standby
.\"O ACPI state S1.  This state offers minimal, though real, power savings, while
.\"O providing a very low-latency transition back to a working system.  This is the
.\"O default mode.
ACPI の状態 S1。
この状態は最小限であるが、実際にパワーセーブができて、
稼働中のシステムに戻すのに非常に短い時間でできる。
これがデフォルトのモードである。
.TP
.B freeze
.\"O The processes are frozen, all the devices are suspended and all the processors
.\"O idled.  This state is a general state that does not need any platform-specific
.\"O support, but it saves less power than Suspend-to-RAM, because the system is
.\"O still in a running state.  (Available since Linux 3.9.)
プロセスが凍結されて、全てのデバイスがサスペンドされて、
全てのプロセッサがアイドルにされる。
この状態は、プラットフォーム固有のサポートが必要でない、
一般的な状態である。
しかし、システムはまだ実行状態であるため、RAM へのサスペンドよりパワーセーブができない。
(Linux 3.9 以降で利用可能である。)
.TP
.B mem
.\"O ACPI state S3 (Suspend-to-RAM).  This state offers significant power savings as
.\"O everything in the system is put into a low-power state, except for memory,
.\"O which is placed in self-refresh mode to retain its contents.
ACPI の状態 S3 (RAM へのサスペンド)。
この状態では、システムの全てが低パワー状態にされるため、
特にパワーセーブができる。
メモリは例外であり、内容を保持するために、自己リフレッシュ
モードになる。
.TP
.B disk
.\"O ACPI state S4 (Suspend-to-disk).  This state offers the greatest power savings,
.\"O and can be used even in the absence of low-level platform support for power
.\"O management.  This state operates similarly to Suspend-to-RAM, but includes a
.\"O final step of writing memory contents to disk.
ACPI の状態 S4 (ディスクへのサスペンド)。
この状態はもっともパワーセーブできて、電源管理の低レベル
プラットフォームのサポートがなくても使用できる。
この状態は RAM へのサスペンドと同様の操作であるが、
最終ステップではメモリの内容がディスクに書き込まれる。
.TP
.B off
.\"O ACPI state S5 (Poweroff).  This is done by calling '/sbin/shutdown'.
.\"O Not officially supported by ACPI, but it usually works.
ACPI の状態 S5 (パワーオフ)。
これは単に '/sbin/shutdown' を呼び出す。
ACPI で正式にサポートされてはいないが、通常は動作する。
.TP
.B no
.\"O Don't suspend, only set the RTC wakeup time.
サスペンドせず、RTC ウェイクアップ時刻の設定のみを行う。
.TP
.B on
.\"O Don't suspend, but read the RTC device until an alarm time appears.
.\"O This mode is useful for debugging.
サスペンドしないが、アラーム時刻が来るまで RTC デバイスを読み込む。
このモードはデバッグに役立つ。
.TP
.B disable
.\"O Disable a previously set alarm.
前に設定したアラームを無効化する。
.TP
.B show
.\"O Print alarm information in format: "alarm: off|on  <time>".
.\"O The time is in ctime() output format, e.g. "alarm: on  Tue Nov 16 04:48:45 2010".
アラーム情報を "alarm: off|on  <time>" の形式で表示する。
時刻は ctime() の出力形式で、"alarm: on  Tue Nov 16 04:48:45 2010" のようになる。
.RE
.TP
.BR \-n , " \-\-dry-run"
.\"O This option does everything apart from actually setting up the alarm,
.\"O suspending the system, or waiting for the alarm.
このオプションは、実際のアラーム設定、システムのサスペンド、
アラームの待機以外の全てを実行する。
.TP
.BR \-s , " \-\-seconds " \fIseconds
.\"O Set the wakeup time to \fIseconds\fP in the future from now.
ウェイクアップ時刻を現時点から \fIseconds\fP 秒後に設定する。
.TP
.BR \-t , " \-\-time " \fItime_t
.\"O Set the wakeup time to the absolute time \fItime_t\fP.  \fItime_t\fP
.\"O is the time in seconds since 1970-01-01, 00:00 UTC.  Use the
.\"O .BR date (1)
.\"O tool to convert between human-readable time and \fItime_t\fP.
ウェイクアップ時刻を絶対時刻 \fItime_t\fP に設定する。
\fItime_t\fP は 1970-01-01, 00:00 UTC からの秒数である。
.BR date (1)
ツールを使って、人が読みやすい時刻と \fItime_t\fP を変換できる。
.TP
.BR \-u , " \-\-utc"
.\"O Assume that the hardware clock is set to UTC (Universal Time Coordinated),
.\"O regardless of the contents of the \fIadjtime\fP file.
\fIadjtime\fP ファイルの内容に関わらず、ハードウェアクロックが
UTC (Universal Time Coordinated) に設定されていると仮定する。
.TP
.BR \-v , " \-\-verbose"
.\"O Be verbose.
詳細な表示を行う。
.TP
.BR \-V , " \-\-version"
.\"O Display version information and exit.
バージョン情報を表示して、終了する。
.TP
.BR \-h , " \-\-help"
.\"O Display help text and exit.
ヘルプを表示して、終了する。
.\"O .SH NOTES
.SH 注意
.\"O Some PC systems can't currently exit sleep states such as \fBmem\fP
.\"O using only the kernel code accessed by this driver.
.\"O They need help from userspace code to make the framebuffer work again.
PC システムの中には、このドライバでアクセスされるカーネルコードのみを使う
\fBmem\fP などでは、現在のところスリープ状態から抜けられないものがある。
これらのシステムでは、フレームバッファを再度実行できるようにするには、
ユーザ空間のコードの助けが必要である。
.\"O .SH FILES
.SH ファイル
.I /etc/adjtime
.\"O .SH HISTORY
.SH 履歴
.\"O The program was posted several times on LKML and other lists
.\"O before appearing in kernel commit message for Linux 2.6 in the GIT
.\"O commit 87ac84f42a7a580d0dd72ae31d6a5eb4bfe04c6d.
このプログラムは、GIT commit 87ac84f42a7a580d0dd72ae31d6a5eb4bfe04c6d で
Linux 2.6 のカーネルコミットメッセージに現れるまでに、
LKML や他のメーリングリストに何回か投稿された。
.\"O .SH AUTHORS
.SH 著者
.\"O The program was written by David Brownell <dbrownell@users.sourceforge.net>
.\"O and improved by Bernhard Walle <bwalle@suse.de>.
このプログラムは David Brownell <dbrownell@users.sourceforge.net> によって書かれ、
Bernhard Walle <bwalle@suse.de> によって改善された。
.\"O .SH COPYRIGHT
.SH 著作権
This is free software.  You may redistribute copies of it under the terms
of the GNU General Public License <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>.
There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
.\"O .SH "SEE ALSO"
.SH 関連項目
.BR hwclock (8),
.BR date (1)
.\"O .SH AVAILABILITY
.SH 入手方法
.\"O The rtcwake command is part of the util-linux package and is available from the
.\"O .UR https://\:www.kernel.org\:/pub\:/linux\:/utils\:/util-linux/
.\"O Linux Kernel Archive
.\"O .UE .
rtcwake コマンドは util-linux パッケージの一部であり、
.UR https://\:www.kernel.org\:/pub\:/linux\:/utils\:/util-linux/
Linux Kernel Archive
.UE
から入手できる。
