.\" sfdisk.8 -- man page for sfdisk
.\" Copyright (C) 2014 Karel Zak <kzak@redhat.com>
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\"
.\"
.\" Japanese Version Copyright (c) 2001-2020 Yuichi SATO
.\"         all rights reserved.
.\" Translated Sun Mar  4 15:57:26 JST 2001
.\"         by Yuichi SATO <ysato@h4.dion.ne.jp>
.\" Updated & Modified Fri Jan 25 05:42:49 JST 2002 by Yuichi SATO
.\" Updated & Modified Mon Mar 10 04:26:24 JST 2003
.\"         by Yuichi SATO <ysato444@yahoo.co.jp>
.\" Updated & Modified Sun May  2 12:41:19 JST 2004 by Yuichi SATO
.\" Updated & Modified Mon May  9 03:21:52 JST 2005 by Yuichi SATO
.\" Updated & Modified Wed Apr  1 22:42:29 JST 2020
.\"         by Yuichi SATO <ysato444@ybb.ne.jp>
.\"
.TH SFDISK 8 "June 2015" "util-linux" "System Administration"
.\"O .SH NAME
.SH 名前
.\"O sfdisk \- display or manipulate a disk partition table
sfdisk \- ディスクパーティションテーブルの表示と操作を行う。
.\"O .SH SYNOPSIS
.SH 書式
.B sfdisk
[options]
.I device
.RB [ \-N
.IR partition-number ]
.sp
.B sfdisk
[options]
.I command
.\"O .SH DESCRIPTION
.SH 説明
.\"O .B sfdisk
.\"O is a script-oriented tool for partitioning any block device.
.B sfdisk
はスクリプトベースのツールで、ブロックデバイスのパーティション操作ができる。

.\"O Since version 2.26
.\"O .B sfdisk
.\"O supports MBR (DOS), GPT, SUN and SGI disk labels, but no longer provides any
.\"O functionality for CHS (Cylinder-Head-Sector) addressing.  CHS has
.\"O never been important for Linux, and this addressing concept does not make any
.\"O sense for new devices.
バージョン 2.26 から
.B sfdisk
は MBR (DOS), GPT, SUN, SGI ディスクラベルをサポートしているが、
CHS (Cylinder-Head-Sector) アドレス指定をサポートしなくなった。
CHS は Linux では重要でなくなっており、このアドレス指定の考え方は
新しいデバイスでは意味をなさなくなった。
.sp
.\"O .B sfdisk
.\"O (since version 2.26)
.\"O .B aligns the start and end of partitions
.\"O to block-device I/O limits when relative sizes are specified, when the default
.\"O values are used or when multiplicative suffixes (e.g. MiB) are used for sizes.
.B sfdisk
(バージョン 2.26 以降) は、相対サイズが指定された場合、
またはデフォルト値が使われた場合、またはサイズに乗数のサフィックス
(例えば、MiB) が使われた場合、ブロックデバイスの I/O 制限に
.B パーティションの開始と終了を揃える。
.\"O It is possible that partition size will be optimized (reduced or enlarged) due
.\"O to alignment if the start offset is specified exactly in sectors and partition
.\"O size relative or by multiplicative suffixes.
開始オフセットが厳密にセクタに指定され、かつパーティションサイズが相対値、
または乗数のサフィックスが指定された場合、調整のために、
パーティションサイズが最適化 (縮小または拡大) される。

.\"O The recommended way is not to specify start offsets at all and specify
.\"O partition size in MiB, GiB (or so).  In this case sfdisk align all partitions
.\"O to block-device I/O limits (or when I/O limits are too small then to megabyte
.\"O boundary to keep disk layout portable).  If this default behaviour is unwanted
.\"O (usually for very small partitions) then specify offsets and sizes in
.\"O sectors.  In this case sfdisk entirely follows specified numbers without any
.\"O optimization.
推奨される方法は、開始オフセットを全く指定せず、
パーティションサイズを MiB, GiB (など) で指定することである。
この場合、sfdisk は全てのパーティションを
ブロックデバイス I/O 制限に揃える
(もしくは、I/O 制限がとても小さい場合、ディスクレイアウトを他でも
利用できるようにするため、メガバイト境界にされる)。
このデフォルトの挙動が望ましくない場合 (通常はとても小さいパーティションの場合)、
オフセットとサイズをセクタ数で指定する。
この場合、sfdisk は最適化をせずに指定された数値に完全に従う。
.sp
.\"O .B sfdisk
.\"O does not create the standard system partitions for SGI and SUN disk labels like
.\"O .BR fdisk (8)
.\"O does.
.\"O It is necessary to explicitly create all partitions including whole-disk system
.\"O partitions.
.B sfdisk
は、
.BR fdisk (8)
のようには、SGI と SUN ディスクラベルに対して、
標準的なシステムパーティションを作成しない。
ディスクシステムパーティション全体を含むように、
明示的に全部のパーティションを作成する必要がある。

.\"O .B sfdisk
.\"O uses BLKRRPART (reread partition table) ioctl to make sure that the device is
.\"O not used by system or another tools (see also --no-reread).  It's possible that
.\"O this feature or another sfdisk activity races with \fBudevd\fR.  The recommended way
.\"O how to avoid possible collisions is to use exclusive flock for the whole-disk
.\"O device to serialize device access.  The exclusive lock will cause udevd to skip
.\"O the event handling on the device.  For example:
.B sfdisk
は BLKRRPART (パーティションテーブルの再読み込み) ioctl を使い、
デバイスがシステムまたは他のツールで使われていないかを確かめる
(--no-reread を参照)。
この機能または他の sfdisk の操作が、\fBudevd\fR と競合する可能性がある。
衝突の可能性を回避するのに推奨される方法は、デバイスアクセスを
直列化するために、ディスクデバイス全体に対して排他 flock を使うことである。
排他ロックを使うと、udevd がデバイスのイベントハンドリングをスキップする可能性がある。
例えば:
.RS
.sp
.nf
.B "flock /dev/sdc sfdisk /dev/sdc"
.fi
.sp
.RE
.\"O Note, this semantic is not currently supported by udevd for MD and DM devices.
この使い方は MD と DM デバイスについての udevd ではサポートされていない。

.\"O .SH COMMANDS
.SH コマンド
.\"O The commands are mutually exclusive.
コマンドはどれか 1 つしか使用できない。
.TP
.RB [ \-N " \fIpartition-number\fR] " \fIdevice\fR
.\"O The default \fBsfdisk\fR command is to read the specification for the desired
.\"O partitioning of \fIdevice\fR from standard input, and then create a partition
.\"O table according to the specification.  See below for the description of the
.\"O input format.  If standard input is a terminal, then \fBsfdisk\fR starts an
.\"O interactive session.
デフォルトの \fBsfdisk\fR コマンドは、
\fIdevice\fR について希望するパーティション分割の仕様を、標準入力から読み取り、
その仕様に従ってパーティションテーブルを作成する。
入力フォーマットの説明は下記を参照すること。
標準入力が端末の場合、\fBsfdisk\fR は対話型のセッションを開始する。
.sp
.\"O If the option \fB\-N\fR is specified, then the changes are applied to
.\"O the partition addressed by \fIpartition-number\fR.  The unspecified fields
.\"O of the partition are not modified.
オプション \fB\-N\fR が指定されると、
\fIpartition-number\fR で指定されたパーティションに変更が適用される。
指定されないパーティションのフィールドは、変更されない。
.sp
.\"O Note that it's possible to address an unused partition with \fB\-N\fR.
.\"O For example, an MBR always contains 4 partitions, but the number of used
.\"O partitions may be smaller.  In this case \fBsfdisk\fR follows the default
.\"O values from the partition table and does not use built-in defaults for the
.\"O unused partition given with \fB\-N\fR.  See also \fB\-\-append\fR.
使用されていないパーティションを \fB\-N\fR で指定できる点に注意すること。
例えば、MBR は常に 4 つのパーティションを持ち、
使用されているパーティションの番号は、小さい方から使われる。
この場合、\fBsfdisk\fR は、\fB\-N\fR で指定された使用されていないパーティションについて、
パーティションテーブルからのデフォルト値に従い、
組み込みのデフォルト値を使わない。
\fB\-\-append\fR を参照すること。
.TP
.BR \-A , " \-\-activate \fIdevice " [ \fIpartition-number...]
.\"O Switch on the bootable flag for the specified partitions and switch off the
.\"O bootable flag on all unspecified partitions. The special placeholder '-'
.\"O may be used instead of the partition numbers to switch off the bootable flag
.\"O on all partitions.
指定されたパーティションのブート可能フラグをオンにし、
指定されていない全てのパーティションのブート可能フラグをオフにする。
特別なプレースホルダー '-' はパーティション番号の代わりに使われ、
全てのパーティションのブート可能フラグをオフにする。

.\"O The activation command is supported for MBR and PMBR only.  If GPT label is detected
.\"O than sfdisk prints warning and automatically enter PMBR.
アクティブ化コマンドは、MBR と PMBR のみでサポートされている。
GPT ラベルが検出されると、sfdisk は警告を表示して、
自動的に PMBR に入る。

.\"O If no \fIpartition-number\fR is specified, then list the partitions with an
.\"O enabled flag.
\fIpartition-number\fR が指定されない場合、
有効化フラグの付いたパーティションのリストを表示する。
.TP
.BR "\-\-delete \fIdevice " [ \fIpartition-number ...]
.\"O Delete all or the specified partitions.
全てのパーティション、または指定されたパーティションを削除する。
.TP
.BR \-d , " \-\-dump " \fIdevice\fR
.\"O Dump the partitions of a device in a format that is usable as input to \fBsfdisk\fR.
.\"O See the section \fBBACKING UP THE PARTITION TABLE\fR.
\fBsfdisk\fR の入力として利用可能なフォーマットで、
デバイスのパーティションをダンプする。
\fBパーティションテーブルのバックアップ\fR のセクションを参照すること。
.TP
.BR \-g , " \-\-show\-geometry " [ \fIdevice ...]
.\"O List the geometry of all or the specified devices. For backward
.\"O compatibility the deprecated option \fB\-\-show\-pt\-geometry\fR have the same
.\"O meaning as this one.
全てのパーティション、または指定されたパーティションのジオメトリを
表示する。
後方互換のため、推奨されないオプション \fB\-\-show\-pt\-geometry\fR は、
このオプションと同じ意味を持つ。
.TP
.BR \-J , " \-\-json " \fIdevice\fR
.\"O Dump the partitions of a device in JSON format.  Note that \fBsfdisk\fR is
.\"O not able to use JSON as input format.
デバイスのパーティションを JSON フォーマットでダンプする。
\fBsfdisk\fR は JSON を入力フォーマットとして使えない点に注意すること。
.TP
.BR \-l , " \-\-list " [ \fIdevice ...]
.\"O List the partitions of all or the specified devices.  This command can be used
.\"O together with \fB\-\-verify\fR.
全てのデバイス、または指定されたデバイスのパーティションを表示する。
このコマンドは、\fB\-\-verify\fR とともに利用できる。
.TP
.BR \-F , " \-\-list-free " [ \fIdevice ...]
.\"O List the free unpartitioned areas on all or the specified devices.
全てのデバイス、または指定されたデバイスのパーティション化
されていない領域を表示する。
.TP
.BR "\-\-part\-attrs \fIdevice partition-number " [ \fIattributes ]
.\"O Change the GPT partition attribute bits.  If \fIattributes\fR is not specified,
.\"O then print the current partition settings.  The \fIattributes\fR argument is a
.\"O comma- or space-delimited list of bits.  The currently supported attribute
.\"O bits are: RequiredPartition, NoBlockIOProtocol, LegacyBIOSBootable
.\"O and GUID-specific bits in the range from 48 to 63.  For example, the string
.\"O "RequiredPartition,50,51" sets three bits.
GPT パーティション属性ビットを変更する。
\fIattributes\fR が指定されない場合、現状のパーティション設定が表示される。
\fIattributes\fR 引き数は、カンマ、またはスペース区切りのビットのリストである。
現状サポートされている属性ビットは以下の通り:
RequiredPartition, NoBlockIOProtocol, LegacyBIOSBootable
そして、GUID 固有ビットは 48 から 63 の範囲である。
例えば、"RequiredPartition,50,51" は 3 ビットを設定する。
.TP
.BR "\-\-part\-label \fIdevice partition-number " [ \fIlabel ]
.\"O Change the GPT partition name (label).  If \fIlabel\fR is not specified,
.\"O then print the current partition label.
GPT パーティション名 (ラベル) を変更する。
\fIlabel\fR が指定されない場合、現在のパーティションラベルを表示する。
.TP
.BR "\-\-part\-type \fIdevice partition-number " [ \fItype ]
.\"O Change the partition type.  If \fItype\fR is not specified, then print the
.\"O current partition type.  The \fItype\fR argument is hexadecimal for MBR,
.\"O or a GUID for GPT.  For backward compatibility the options \fB\-c\fR and
.\"O \fB\-\-id\fR have the same meaning as this one.
パーティションタイプを変更する。
\fItype\fR が指定されない場合、現在のパーティションタイプを表示する。
\fItype\fR 引き数は、MBR については 16 進数であり、GPT については GUID である。
後方互換のため、オプション \fB\-c\fR と \fB\-\-id\fR は、
このオプションと同じ意味を持つ。
.TP
.BR "\-\-part\-uuid \fIdevice partition-number " [ \fIuuid ]
.\"O Change the GPT partition UUID.  If \fIuuid\fR is not specified,
.\"O then print the current partition UUID.
GPT パーティションの UUID を変更する。
\fIuuid\fR が指定されない場合、現在のパーティション UUID を表示する。
.TP
.BR \-r , " \-\-reorder " \fIdevice
.\"O Renumber the partitions, ordering them by their start offset.
パーティション番号を開始オフセットの順番に振りなおす。
.TP
.BR \-s , " \-\-show\-size " [ \fIdevice ...]
.\"O List the sizes of all or the specified devices in units of 1024 byte size.
.\"O This command is DEPRECATED in favour of
.\"O .BR blockdev (1).
全てのデバイス、または指定されたデバイスのサイズを、1024 バイトサイズを単位として表示する。
このコマンドは「推奨されず」、
.BR blockdev (1)
を使うべきである。
.TP
.BR \-T , " \-\-list\-types"
.\"O Print all supported types for the current disk label or the label specified by
.\"O \fB\-\-label\fR.
現在のディスクラベル、または \fB\-\-label\fR で指定されたラベルについて、
全てのサポートされたタイプを表示する。
.TP
.BR \-V , " \-\-verify " [ \fIdevice ...]
.\"O Test whether the partition table and partitions seem correct.
パーティションテーブルとパーティションが正しく見えるかを
テストする。

.\"O .SH OPTIONS
.SH オプション
.TP
.BR \-a , " \-\-append"
.\"O Don't create a new partition table, but only append the specified partitions.
新しいパーティションテーブルを作成せず、指定したパーティションの
追加のみを行う。
.TP
.BR \-b , " \-\-backup"
.\"O Back up the current partition table sectors before starting the partitioning.
.\"O The default backup file name is ~/sfdisk-<device>-<offset>.bak; to use another
.\"O name see option \fB\-O\fR, \fB\-\-backup\-file\fR.
パーティション作成を開始する前に、現在のパーティションテーブル
セクターをバックアップする。
デフォルトのバックアップファイル名は ~/sfdisk-<device>-<offset>.bak である。
他の名前を使う場合は、オプション \fB\-O\fR, \fB\-\-backup\-file\fR を参照すること。
.TP
.BR \-\-color [ =\fIwhen ]
.\"O Colorize the output.  The optional argument \fIwhen\fP
.\"O can be \fBauto\fR, \fBnever\fR or \fBalways\fR.  If the \fIwhen\fR argument is omitted,
.\"O it defaults to \fBauto\fR.  The colors can be disabled; for the current built-in default
.\"O see the \fB\-\-help\fR output.  See also the \fBCOLORS\fR section.
出力をカラー表示する。
オプションの引き数 \fIwhen\fP は、
\fBauto\fR, \fBnever\fR, \fBalways\fR のいずれかである。
\fIwhen\fR 引き数が省略された場合、デフォルトは \fBauto\fR である。
カラー表示は無効化できる。
現在の組み込みのデフォルトは、\fB\-\-help\fR の出力を参照すること。
\fBカラー表示\fR セクションも参照すること。
.TP
.BR \-f , " \-\-force"
.\"O Disable all consistency checking.
全ての整合性チェックを無効化する。
.TP
.B \-\-Linux
.\"O Deprecated and ignored option.  Partitioning that is compatible with
.\"O Linux (and other modern operating systems) is the default.
推奨されず、無視されるオプション。
Linux (と他の現代的な OS) と互換のパーティション作成は、デフォルトである。
.TP
.BR \-n , " \-\-no\-act"
.\"O Do everything except writing to the device.
デバイスに書き込む以外の全てを行う。
.TP
.B \-\-no\-reread
.\"O Do not check through the re-read-partition-table ioctl whether the device is in use.
パーティションテーブルの再読み込み ioctl を使った、
デバイスが使用中か否かのチェックを行わない。
.TP
.B \-\-no\-tell\-kernel
.\"O Don't tell the kernel about partition changes. This option is recommended together
.\"O with \fB\-\-no\-reread\fR to modify a partition on used disk. The modified partition
.\"O should not be used (e.g. mounted).
パーティションの変更をカーネルに知らせない。
このオプションは、使用されているディスクのパーティションを
変更する際に、\fB\-\-no\-reread\fR とともに使うことが推奨される。
変更されたパーティションは使用 (例えば、マウント) すべきではない。
.TP
.BR \-O , " \-\-backup\-file " \fIpath
Override the default backup file name.  Note that the device name and offset
are always appended to the file name.
.TP
.BR \-\-move-data [ =\fIpath ]
Move data after partition relocation, for example when moving the beginning
of a partition to another place on the disk.  The size of the partition has
to remain the same, the new and old location may overlap.  This option requires
option \fB\-N\fR in order to be processed on one specific partition only.

The \fIpath\fR overrides the default log file name
(the default is ~/sfdisk-<devname>.move).  The log file contains information
about all read/write operations on the partition data.

Note that this operation is risky and not atomic. \fBDon't forget to backup your data!\fR

In the example below, the first command creates a 100MiB free area before
the first partition and moves the data it contains (e.g. a filesystem),
the next command creates a new partition from the free space (at offset 2048),
and the last command reorders partitions to match disk order
(the original sdc1 will become sdc2).
.RS
.sp
.B "echo '+100M,' | sfdisk --move-data /dev/sdc -N 1"
.br
.\"O .B "echo '2048,' | sfdisk /dev/sdc --append
.B "echo '2048,' | sfdisk /dev/sdc --append"
.br
.B sfdisk /dev/sdc --reorder
.sp
.RE

.TP
.BR \-o , " \-\-output " \fIlist
Specify which output columns to print.  Use
.B \-\-help
to get a list of all supported columns.
.sp
The default list of columns may be extended if \fIlist\fP is
specified in the format \fI+list\fP (e.g. \fB-o +UUID\fP).
.TP
.BR \-q , " \-\-quiet"
Suppress extra info messages.
.TP
.BR \-u , " \-\-unit S"
Deprecated option.  Only the sector unit is supported. This option is not
supported when using the --show-size command.
.TP
.BR \-X , " \-\-label " \fItype
Specify the disk label type (e.g. \fBdos\fR, \fBgpt\fR, ...).  If this option
is not given, then \fBsfdisk\fR defaults to the existing label, but if there
is no label on the device yet, then the type defaults to \fBdos\fR. The default
or the current label may be overwritten by the "label: <name>" script header
line. The option \fB\-\-label\fR does not force \fBsfdisk\fR to create empty
disk label (see the \fBEMPTY DISK LABEL\fR section below).
.TP
.BR \-Y , " \-\-label\-nested " \fItype
Force editing of a nested disk label.  The primary disk label has to exist already.
This option allows to edit for example a hybrid/protective MBR on devices with GPT.

.TP
.BR -w , " \-\-wipe "\fIwhen
Wipe filesystem, RAID and partition-table signatures from the device, in order
to avoid possible collisions.  The argument \fIwhen\fR can be \fBauto\fR,
\fBnever\fR or \fBalways\fR.  When this option is not given, the default is
\fBauto\fR, in which case signatures are wiped only when in interactive mode;
except the old partition-table signatures which are always wiped before create
a new partition-table if the argument \fIwhen\fR is not \fBnever\fR. In all
cases detected signatures are reported by warning messages before a new
partition table is created.  See also
.BR wipefs (8)
command.

.TP
.BR -W , " \-\-wipe-partitions "\fIwhen
Wipe filesystem, RAID and partition-table signatures from a newly created
partitions, in order to avoid possible collisions.  The argument \fIwhen\fR can
be \fBauto\fR, \fBnever\fR or \fBalways\fR.  When this option is not given, the
default is \fBauto\fR, in which case signatures are wiped only when in
interactive mode and after confirmation by user.  In all cases detected
signatures are reported by warning messages after a new partition is created.
See also
.BR wipefs (8)
command.

.TP
.BR \-v , " \-\-version"
Display version information and exit.
.TP
.BR \-h , " \-\-help"
Display help text and exit.

.\"O .SH "INPUT FORMATS"
.SH 入力フォーマット
.B sfdisk
supports two input formats and generic header lines.

.B Header lines
.RS
The optional header lines specify generic information that apply to the partition
table.  The header-line format is:
.RS
.sp
.B "<name>: <value>"
.sp
.RE
The currently recognized headers are:
.RS
.TP
.B unit
Specify the partitioning unit.  The only supported unit is \fBsectors\fR.
.TP
.B label
Specify the partition table type.  For example \fBdos\fR or \fBgpt\fR.
.TP
.B label-id
Specify the partition table identifier.  It should be a  hexadecimal number
(with a 0x prefix) for MBR and a UUID for GPT.
.TP
.B first-lba
Specify the first usable sector for GPT partitions.
.TP
.B last-lba
Specify the last usable sector for GPT partitions.
.TP
.B table-length
Specify the maximal number of GPT partitions.
.TP
.B grain
Specify minimal size in bytes used to calculate partitions alignment.  The
default is 1MiB and it's strongly recommended to use the default.  Do not
modify this variable if you're not sure.
.RE
.sp
Note that it is only possible to use header lines before the first partition
is specified in the input.
.RE

.B Unnamed-fields format
.RS
.RS
.sp
.I start size type bootable
.sp
.RE
where each line fills one partition descriptor.
.sp
Fields are separated by whitespace, comma or semicolon possibly
followed by whitespace; initial and trailing whitespace is ignored.
Numbers can be octal, decimal or hexadecimal; decimal is the default.
When a field is absent, empty or specified as '-' a default value is
used.  But when the \fB-N\fR option (change a single partition) is
given, the default for each field is its previous value.
.sp
The default value of
.I start
is the first non-assigned sector aligned according to device I/O limits.
The default start offset for the first partition is 1 MiB.  The offset may
be followed by the multiplicative suffixes (KiB, MiB, GiB, TiB, PiB,
EiB, ZiB and YiB) then the number is interpreted as offset in bytes.
.sp
The default value of
.I size
indicates "as much as possible"; i.e. until the next partition or
end-of-device.  A numerical argument is by default interpreted as a
number of sectors, however if the size is followed by one of the
multiplicative suffixes (KiB, MiB, GiB, TiB, PiB, EiB, ZiB and YiB)
then the number is interpreted as the size of the partition in bytes
and it is then aligned according to the device I/O limits.  A '+' can
be used instead of a number to enlarge the partition as much as
possible.  Note '+' is equivalent to the default behaviour for a new
partition; existing partitions will be resized as required.
.sp
The partition
.I type
is given in hex for MBR (DOS), without the 0x prefix, a GUID string for GPT, or
a shortcut:
.RS
.TP
.B L
Linux; means 83 for MBR and 0FC63DAF-8483-4772-8E79-3D69D8477DE4 for GPT.
.TP
.B S
swap area; means 82 for MBR and 0657FD6D-A4AB-43C4-84E5-0933C84B4F4F for GPT
.TP
.B E
extended partition; means 5 for MBR
.TP
.B H
home partition; means 933AC7E1-2EB4-4F13-B844-0E14E2AEF915 for GPT
.TP
.B X
linux extended partition; means 85 for MBR.
.TP
.B U
EFI System partition, means EF for MBR and C12A7328-F81F-11D2-BA4B-00A0C93EC93B for GPT
.TP
.B R
Linux RAID; means FD for MBR and A19D880F-05FC-4D3B-A006-743F0F84911E for GPT
.TP
.B V
LVM; means 8E for MBR and E6D6D379-F507-44C2-A23C-238F2A3DF928 for GPT
.RE
.PP
The default
.I type
value is
.I L

.I bootable
is specified as [\fB*\fR|\fB-\fR], with as default not-bootable.  The
value of this field is irrelevant for Linux - when Linux runs it has
been booted already - but ir might play a role for certain boot
loaders and for other operating systems.
.RE

.B Named-fields format
.RS
This format is more readable, robust, extensible and allows to specify additional
information (e.g. a UUID).  It is recommended to use this format to keep your scripts
more readable.
.RS
.sp
.RI [ "device \fB:" ] " name" [\fB= value "], ..."
.sp
.RE
The
.I device
field is optional.  \fBsfdisk\fR extracts the partition number from the
device name.  It allows to specify the partitions in random order.
This functionality is mostly used by \fB\-\-dump\fR.
Don't use it if you are not sure.

The
.I value
can be between quotation marks (e.g. name="This is partition name").
The currently supported fields are:
.RS
.TP
.BI start= number
The first non-assigned sector aligned according to device I/O limits.  The default
start offset for the first partition is 1 MiB. The offset may be followed by
the multiplicative suffixes (KiB, MiB, GiB, TiB, PiB, EiB, ZiB and YiB) then
the number is interpreted as offset in bytes.
.TP
.BI size= number
Specify the partition size in sectors.  The number may be followed by the multiplicative
suffixes (KiB, MiB, GiB, TiB, PiB, EiB, ZiB and YiB), then it's interpreted as size
in bytes and the size is aligned according to device I/O limits.
.TP
.B bootable
Mark the partition as bootable.
.TP
.BI attrs= string
Partition attributes, usually GPT partition attribute bits.  See
\fB\-\-part\-attrs\fR for more details about the GPT-bits string format.
.TP
.BI uuid= string
GPT partition UUID.
.TP
.BI name= string
GPT partition name.
.TP
.BI type= code
A hexadecimal number (without 0x) for an MBR partition, or a GUID for a GPT partition.
For backward compatibility the \fBId=\fR field has the same meaning.
.RE
.RE

.\"O .SH "EMPTY DISK LABEL"
.SH 空のディスクラベル
.B sfdisk
does not create partition table without partitions by default. The lines with
partitions are expected in the script by default. The empty partition table has
to be explicitly requested by "label: <name>" script header line without any
partitions lines. For example:
.RS
.sp
.B "echo 'label: gpt' | sfdisk /dev/sdb"
.sp
.RE
creates empty GPT partition table. Note that the \fB\-\-append\fR disables this feature.

.\"O .SH "BACKING UP THE PARTITION TABLE"
.SH パーティションテーブルのバックアップ
It is recommended to save the layout of your devices.
.B sfdisk
supports two ways.
.sp
Use the \fB\-\-dump\fR option to save a description of the device layout
to a text file.  The dump format is suitable for later \fBsfdisk\fR input.
For example:
.RS
.sp
.B "sfdisk --dump /dev/sda > sda.dump"
.sp
.RE
This can later be restored by:
.RS
.sp
.B "sfdisk /dev/sda < sda.dump"
.RE

If you want to do a full (binary) backup of all sectors where the
partition table is stored,
then use the \fB\-\-backup\fR option.  It writes the sectors to
~/sfdisk-<device>-<offset>.bak files.  The default name of the backup file can
be changed with the \fB\-\-backup\-file\fR option.  The backup files
contain only raw data from the \fIdevice\fR.
Note that the same concept of backup files is used by
.BR wipefs (8).
For example:
.RS
.sp
.B "sfdisk --backup /dev/sda"
.sp
.RE
The GPT header can later be restored by:
.RS
.sp
.nf
.B "dd  if=~/sfdisk-sda-0x00000200.bak  of=/dev/sda  \e"
.B "  seek=$((0x00000200))  bs=1  conv=notrunc"
.fi
.sp
.RE
Note that \fBsfdisk\fR since version 2.26 no longer provides the \fB\-I\fR option to
restore sectors.
.BR dd (1)
provides all necessary functionality.

.\"O .SH COLORS
.SH カラー表示
.\"O Implicit coloring can be disabled by an empty file \fI/etc/terminal-colors.d/sfdisk.disable\fR.
暗黙のカラー表示は空ファイル \fI/etc/terminal-colors.d/sfdisk.disable\fR で
無効化できる。

.\"O See
.\"O .BR terminal-colors.d (5)
.\"O for more details about colorization configuration. The logical color names
.\"O supported by
.\"O .B sfdisk
.\"O are:
カラー表示設定の詳細は
.BR terminal-colors.d (5)
を参照すること。
.B sfdisk
でサポートされている論理的なカラー名は以下の通り:
.TP
.B header
.\"O The header of the output tables.
出力テーブルのヘッダー。
.TP
.B warn
.\"O The warning messages.
警告メッセージ。
.TP
.B welcome
.\"O The welcome message.
ようこそのメッセージ。

.\"O .SH NOTES
.SH 注意
.\"O Since version 2.26 \fBsfdisk\fR no longer provides the \fB\-R\fR or
.\"O \fB\-\-re\-read\fR option to force the kernel to reread the partition table.
.\"O Use \fBblockdev \-\-rereadpt\fR instead.
バージョン 2.26 以降で \fBsfdisk\fR は、
カーネルにパーティションテーブルを再読み込みさせるための、
\fB\-R\fR と \fB\-\-re\-read\fR オプションを提供しない。
代わりに \fBblockdev \-\-rereadpt\fR を使うこと。
.PP
.\"O Since version 2.26 \fBsfdisk\fR does not provide the \fB\-\-DOS\fR, \fB\-\-IBM\fR, \fB\-\-DOS\-extended\fR,
.\"O \fB\-\-unhide\fR, \fB\-\-show\-extended\fR, \fB\-\-cylinders\fR, \fB\-\-heads\fR, \fB\-\-sectors\fR,
.\"O \fB\-\-inside\-outer\fR, \fB\-\-not\-inside\-outer\fR options.
バージョン 2.26 以降で \fBsfdisk\fR は、
\fB\-\-DOS\fR, \fB\-\-IBM\fR, \fB\-\-DOS\-extended\fR,
\fB\-\-unhide\fR, \fB\-\-show\-extended\fR, \fB\-\-cylinders\fR, \fB\-\-heads\fR, \fB\-\-sectors\fR,
\fB\-\-inside\-outer\fR, \fB\-\-not\-inside\-outer\fR
オプションを提供しない。

.\"O .SH ENVIRONMENT
.SH 環境変数
.IP SFDISK_DEBUG=all
.\"O enables sfdisk debug output.
sfdisk デバッグ出力を有効化する。
.IP LIBFDISK_DEBUG=all
.\"O enables libfdisk debug output.
libfdisk デバッグ出力を有効化する。
.IP LIBBLKID_DEBUG=all
.\"O enables libblkid debug output.
libblkid デバッグ出力を有効化する。
.IP LIBSMARTCOLS_DEBUG=all
.\"O enables libsmartcols debug output.
libsmartcols デバッグ出力を有効化する。

.\"O .SH "SEE ALSO"
.SH 関連項目
.BR fdisk (8),
.BR cfdisk (8),
.BR parted (8),
.BR partprobe (8),
.BR partx (8)

.\"O .SH AUTHOR
.SH 著者
Karel Zak <kzak@redhat.com>
.PP
.\"O The current sfdisk implementation is based on the original sfdisk
.\"O from Andries E. Brouwer.
現在の sfdisk の実装は、オリジナルの Andries E. Brouwer の
sfdisk に基づいている。

.\"O .SH AVAILABILITY
.SH 入手方法
.\"O The sfdisk command is part of the util-linux package and is available from
.\"O https://www.kernel.org/pub/linux/utils/util-linux/.
sfdisk コマンドは util-linux パッケージの一部であり、
https://www.kernel.org/pub/linux/utils/util-linux/
から入手できる。
