.\" Copyright (C) 1998-2006 Miquel van Smoorenburg.
.\" Copyright (C) 2012 Karel Zak <kzak@redhat.com>
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301 USA
.\"
.\" Japanese Version Copyright (c) 2020 Yuichi SATO
.\"         all rights reserved.
.\" Translated Thu Apr 30 01:41:27 JST 2020
.\"         by Yuichi SATO <ysato444@ybb.ne.jp>
.\"
.TH SULOGIN "8" "July 2014" "util-linux" "System Administration"
.\"O .SH NAME
.SH 名前
.\"O sulogin \- single-user login
sulogin \- シングルユーザーログイン
.\"O .SH SYNOPSIS
.SH 書式
.BR sulogin " [options]"
.RI [ tty ]
.\"O .SH DESCRIPTION
.SH 説明
.\"O .B sulogin
.\"O is invoked by
.\"O .B init
.\"O when the system goes into single-user mode.
.B sulogin
は、システムをシングルユーザーモードにする時に、
.B init
から呼び出される。
.PP
.\"O The user is prompted:
ユーザーには以下のプロンプトが出される:
.IP "" .5i
Give root password for system maintenance
.br
(or type Control\-D for normal startup):
.PP
.\"O If the root account is locked and --force is specified, no password is required.
root アカウントがロックされていて、かつ --force が指定されている場合、パスワードは必要ない。
.PP
.\"O .B sulogin
.\"O will be connected to the current terminal, or to the optional \fItty\fR device that
.\"O can be specified on the command line (typically
.\"O .IR /dev/console ).
.B sulogin
は現在の端末に接続されるか、コマンドラインで指定された場合は
オプションの \fItty\fR デバイスに接続される
(典型的には
.I /dev/console
に接続される)。
.PP
.\"O When the user exits from the single-user shell, or presses control\-D at the
.\"O prompt, the system will continue to boot.
ユーザーがシングルユーザーシェルを抜けた場合、またはプロンプトで
control\-D が入力された場合、システムはブートを続ける。
.\"O .SH OPTIONS
.SH オプション
.IP "\fB\-e\fR, \fB\-\-force\fP"
.\"O If the default method of obtaining the root password from the system via
.\"O .BR getpwnam (3)
.\"O fails, then examine
.\"O .I /etc/passwd
.\"O and
.\"O .I /etc/shadow
.\"O to get the password.  If these files are damaged or nonexistent, or when
.\"O root account is locked by '!' or '*' at the begin of the password then
.\"O .B sulogin
.\"O will \fBstart a root shell without asking for a password\fP.
システムから
.BR getpwnam (3)
を使って root パスワードを取得するデフォルトの方法が失敗した場合、
パスワードを取得するために
.I /etc/passwd
と
.I /etc/shadow
を調べる。
これらのファイルが破損している場合、または存在しない場合、
またはパスワードが '!' または '*' から始まっていて root アカウントがロックされている場合、
.B sulogin
は\fBパスワードを尋ねずに root シェルを開始する\fP。
.PP
.IP
.\"O Only use the
.\"O .B \-e
.\"O option if you are sure the console is physically protected against
.\"O unauthorized access.
コンソールが権限のないアクセスに対して物理的に防御されているのが
確かな場合にのみ、
.B \-e
オプションを使うこと。
.IP "\fB\-p\fR, \fB\-\-login\-shell\fP"
.\"O Specifying this option causes
.\"O .B sulogin
.\"O to start the shell process as a login shell.
このオプションを指定すると、
.B sulogin
はログインシェルとしてシェルプロセスを開始する。
.IP "\fB\-t\fR, \fB\-\-timeout \fIseconds\fP"
.\"O Specify the maximum amount of time to wait for user input.  By default,
.\"O .B sulogin
.\"O will wait forever.
ユーザーの入力を待つ最大時間を指定する。
デフォルトでは、
.B sulogin
は永遠に待つ。
.IP "\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fP"
.\"O Display help text and exit.
ヘルプを表示して、終了する。
.IP "\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fP"
.\"O Display version information and exit.
バージョン情報を表示して、終了する。
.\"O .SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.SH 環境変数
.\"O .B sulogin
.\"O looks for the environment variable
.\"O .B SUSHELL
.\"O or
.\"O .B sushell
.\"O to determine what shell to start.  If the environment variable is not set, it
.\"O will try to execute root's shell from
.\"O .IR /etc/passwd .
.B sulogin
は環境変数
.B SUSHELL
または
.B sushell
を調べて、開始するシェルを決定する。
この環境変数が設定されていない場合、
.I /etc/passwd
を見て root のシェルを実行しようとする。
.\"O If that fails, it
.\"O will fall back to
.\"O .IR /bin/sh .
それが失敗した場合、
.I /bin/sh
を実行する。
.\"O .SH AUTHOR
.SH 著者
.\"O .B sulogin
.\"O was written by Miquel van Smoorenburg for sysvinit and later ported
.\"O to util-linux by Dave Reisner and Karel Zak.
.B sulogin
は Miquel van Smoorenburg によって sysvinit のために書かれた。
その後、Dave Reisner と Karel Zak によって util-linux に移植された。
.\"O .SH AVAILABILITY
.SH 入手方法
.\"O The sulogin command is part of the util-linux package and is available from
.\"O .UR https://\:www.kernel.org\:/pub\:/linux\:/utils\:/util-linux/
.\"O Linux Kernel Archive
.\"O .UE .
sulogin コマンドは util-linux パッケージの一部であり、
.UR https://\:www.kernel.org\:/pub\:/linux\:/utils\:/util-linux/
Linux Kernel Archive
.UE
から入手できる。
