.\" Copyright (c) 1996 Andries Brouwer
.\" This page is somewhat derived from a page that was
.\" (c) 1980, 1989, 1991 The Regents of the University of California
.\" and had been heavily modified by Rik Faith and myself.
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
.\" with this program; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc.,
.\" 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301 USA.
.\"
.\" Japanese Version Copyright (c) 1998-2001 NAKANO Takeo all rights reserved.
.\" Translated Thu Jan 15 1998 by NAKANO Takeo <nakano@@apm.seikei.ac.jp>
.\" Updated & Modified Sun Feb 18 2001 by  NAKANO Takeo
.\" Updated & Modified Fri Jan 25 05:24:17 JST 2002
.\"         by Yuichi SATO <ysato@h4.dion.ne.jp>
.\" Updated & Modified Mon Mar 10 05:03:44 JST 2003
.\"         by Yuichi SATO <ysato444@yahoo.co.jp>
.\" Updated & Modified Mon May  9 04:01:21 JST 2005 by Yuichi SATO
.\" Updated & Modified Sat Apr  4 02:06:49 JST 2020
.\"         by Yuichi SATO <ysato444@ybb.ne.jp>
.\"
.TH UMOUNT 8 "July 2014" "util-linux" "System Administration"
.\"O .SH NAME
.SH 名前
.\"O umount \- unmount file systems
umount \- ファイルシステムをアンマウントする
.\"O .SH SYNOPSIS
.SH 書式
.B umount \-a
.RB [ \-dflnrv ]
.RB [ \-t
.IR fstype ]
.RB [ \-O
.IR option ...]
.sp
.B umount
.RB [ \-dflnrv ]
.RI { directory | device }...
.sp
.B umount
.BR \-h | \-V

.\"O .SH DESCRIPTION
.SH 説明
.\"O The
.\"O .B umount
.\"O command detaches the mentioned file system(s) from the file hierarchy.  A
.\"O file system is specified by giving the directory where it has been
.\"O mounted.  Giving the special device on which the file system lives may
.\"O also work, but is obsolete, mainly because it will fail in case this
.\"O device was mounted on more than one directory.
.B umount
コマンドは、ファイルの階層構造から指定したファイルシステムを切り離す。
ファイルシステムの指定には、システムをマウントしたディレクトリを与える。
またファイルシステムの実体が存在するスペシャルデバイスを与えることも
できるが、
このやり方は古く、デバイスが 2 つ以上のディレクトリに
マウントされている場合に失敗するだろう。
.PP
.\"O Note that a file system cannot be unmounted when it is 'busy' - for
.\"O example, when there are open files on it, or when some process has its
.\"O working directory there, or when a swap file on it is in use.  The
.\"O offending process could even be
.\"O .B umount
.\"O itself - it opens libc, and libc in its turn may open for example locale
.\"O files.  A lazy unmount avoids this problem, but it may introduce another
.\"O issues. See \fB\-\-lazy\fR description below.
ファイルシステムが `busy' である時にはアンマウントは実行できない。
例えばそのファイルシステム上で、
ファイルがオープンされている
(あるいはスワップファイルが使用中である) 場合や、
あるプロセスのワーキングディレクトリがそこにある場合などが該当する。
この原因となるプロセスが
.B umount
自身の場合もありうる。
.B umount
は libc をオープンするし、
libc はまた多くのファイル (locale ファイルなど)
をオープンする可能性がある。
lazy アンマウントにより、この問題は回避できるが、別の問題を引き起こす。
下記の \fB\-\-lazy\fR の説明を参照すること。
.\"O .SH OPTIONS
.SH オプション
.TP
.BR \-a , " \-\-all"
.\"O All of the filesystems described in
.\"O .I /proc/self/mountinfo
.\"O (or in deprecated /etc/mtab)
.\"O are unmounted, except the proc, devfs, devpts, sysfs, rpc_pipefs and nfsd
.\"O filesystems. This list of the filesystems may be replaced by \fB\-\-types\fR
.\"O umount option.
.I /proc/self/mountinfo
(または、推奨されない /etc/mtab) に記述されている
全てのファイルシステムがアンマウントされる。
proc, devfs, devpts, sysfs, rpc_pipefs, nfsd ファイルシステムは例外である。
このファイルシステムのリストは、\fB\-\-types\fR umount オプションで置き換えられる。
.TP
.BR \-A , " \-\-all\-targets"
.\"O Unmount all mountpoints in the current namespace for the specified filesystem.
.\"O The filesystem can be specified by one of the mountpoints or the device name (or
.\"O UUID, etc.).  When this option is used together with \fB\-\-recursive\fR, then
.\"O all nested mounts within the filesystem are recursively unmounted.
.\"O This option is only supported on systems where /etc/mtab is a symlink
.\"O to /proc/mounts.
指定されたファイルシステムについて、現在の名前空間で全ての
マウントポイントをアンマウントする。
ファイルシステムは、マウントポイント、またはデバイス名 (または UUID など) の
いずれかで指定できる。
このオプションを \fB\-\-recursive\fR とともに使うと、
ファイルシステム中の全ての入れ子 (nested) のマウントが、
再帰的にアンマウントされる。
このオプションは /etc/mtab が /proc/mounts へのシンボリックリンクである
システムでのみサポートされる。
.TP
.BR \-c , " \-\-no\-canonicalize"
.\"O Do not canonicalize paths.  The paths canonicalization is based on
.\"O .BR stat (2)
.\"O and
.\"O .BR readlink (2)
.\"O system calls. These system calls may hang in some cases (for example on NFS if
.\"O server is not available). The option has to be used with canonical path to the
.\"O mount point.
パスを正規化 (canonicalize) しない。
パスの正規化は
.BR stat (2)
と
.BR readlink (2)
システムコールに基づいている。
これらのシステムコールは、あるケース (例えば NFS でサーバが利用できない場合など) では
ハングする可能性がある。
このオプションはマウントポイントへの正規化されたパスで使う
必要がある。

.\"O For more details about this option see the
.\"O .BR mount (8)
.\"O man page. Note that \fBumount\fR does not pass this option to the
.\"O .BI /sbin/umount. type
.\"O helpers.
このオプションのより詳細は、
.BR mount (8)
の man ページを参照すること。
\fBumount\fR は、このオプションを
.BI /sbin/umount. type
ヘルパーに渡さない点に注意すること。
.TP
.BR \-d , " \-\-detach\-loop"
.\"O When the unmounted device was a loop device, also free this loop
.\"O device. This option is unnecessary for devices initialized by
.\"O .BR mount (8),
.\"O in this case "autoclear" functionality is enabled by default.
アンマウントされたデバイスが loop デバイスである場合、
この loop デバイスの解放も行う。
"autoclear" 機能がデフォルトで有効になっている場合、
.BR mount (8)
で初期化されたデバイスについて、
このオプションは必要ではない。
.TP
.B \-\-fake
.\"O Causes everything to be done except for the actual system call or umount helper
.\"O execution; this 'fakes' unmounting the filesystem.  It can be used to remove
.\"O entries from the deprecated
.\"O .I /etc/mtab
.\"O that were unmounted earlier with the
.\"O .B \-n
.\"O option.
実際のシステムコール、または umount ヘルパーの実行以外の、
全てのを実行する。
これはファイルシステムのアンマウントを「騙す (fake)」。
これは、
.B \-n
オプションでアンマウントするのに先立ち、
推奨されない
.I /etc/mtab
のエントリを削除するのに使われる。
.TP
.BR \-f , " \-\-force"
.\"O Force an unmount (in case of an unreachable NFS system).
強制的にアンマウントする (到達不可能な NFS システムの場合)。

.\"O Note that this option does not guarantee that umount command does not hang.
.\"O It's strongly recommended to use absolute paths without symlinks to avoid
.\"O unwanted readlink and stat system calls on unreachable NFS in umount.
このオプションは umount コマンドがハングしないことを保証するものではない。
umount で到達不能な NFS 上での、望まない readlink と stat システムコールを避けるためには、
シンボリックリンクを使わない絶対パスを使うことが強く推奨される。
.TP
.BR \-i , " \-\-internal\-only"
.\"O Do not call the \fB/sbin/umount.\fIfilesystem\fR helper even if it exists.
.\"O By default such a helper program is called if it exists.
\fB/sbin/umount.\fIfilesystem\fR ヘルパーがあっても、呼び出さない。
デフォルトでは、ヘルパープログラムがある場合は、それが呼び出される。
.TP
.BR \-l , " \-\-lazy"
.\"O Lazy unmount.  Detach the filesystem from the file hierarchy now,
.\"O and clean up all references to this filesystem as soon as it is not busy
.\"O anymore.
lazy アンマウント。
現在のファイルシステムの階層構造から指定されたファイルシステムを
切り離し、
ファイルシステムへの全ての参照が busy でなくなった時点ですぐに整理する。

.\"O A system reboot would be expected in near future if you're going to use this
.\"O option for network filesystem or local filesystem with submounts.  The
.\"O recommended use-case for \fBumount -l\fR is to prevent hangs on shutdown due to
.\"O an unreachable network share where a normal umount will hang due to a downed
.\"O server or a network partition. Remounts of the share will not be possible.
このオプションをネットワークファイルシステム、
またはサブマウントのあるローカルファイルシステムで使う場合、
近い将来にシステムリブートが求められるようになるかもしれない。
\fBumount -l\fR の推奨される使い方は、到達不能なネットワーク共有による
シャットダウン時のハングを防止することである。
到達不能なネットワーク共有は、ダウンしたサーバやネットワーク
パーティションにより、通常の umount がハングを起こす。
これらの共有の再マウントは不可能だろう。
.TP
.BR \-N , " \-\-namespace " \fIns
.\"O Perform umount in namespace specified by \fIns\fR.
.\"O \fIns\fR is either PID of process running in that namespace
.\"O or special file representing that namespace.
\fIns\fR で指定された名前空間で umount を実行する。
\fIns\fR は、その名前空間で実行されている プロセスの PID、
またはその名前空間を表す特殊ファイルのいずれかである。
.sp
.\"O .BR umount (8)
.\"O switches to the namespace when it reads /etc/fstab, writes /etc/mtab (or writes to /run/mount) and calls
.\"O .BR umount (2)
.\"O system call, otherwise it runs in the original namespace. It means that the target namespace does not have
.\"O to contain any libraries or another requirements necessary to execute
.\"O .BR umount (2)
.\"O command.
.BR umount (8)
は /etc/fstab の読み込み、/etc/mtab の書き込み (または /run/mount の書き込み)、
.BR umount (2)
システムコールの呼び出し時に、名前空間を切り替える。
それ以外の場合は、元々の名前空間で実行される。
これは、
.BR umount (2)
コマンドを実行するのに必要なライブラリまたは他に要求されるものを、
対象の名前空間に持っている必要がないことを意味する。
.sp
.\"O See \fBnamespaces\fR(7) for more information.
より詳細な情報は \fBnamespaces\fR(7) を参照すること。
.TP
.BR \-n , " \-\-no\-mtab"
.\"O Unmount without writing in
.\"O .IR /etc/mtab .
アンマウントの際、
.I /etc/mtab
への書き込みを行わない。
.TP
.BR \-O , " \-\-test\-opts " \fIoption\fR...
.\"O Unmount only the filesystems that have the specified option set in
.\"O .IR /etc/fstab .
このオプションが
.I /etc/fstab
で指定されているファイルシステムについてのみアンマウントを行う。
.\"O More than one option may be specified in a comma-separated list.
.\"O Each option can be prefixed with
.\"O .B no
.\"O to indicate that no action should be taken for this option.
コンマで区切ることで 2 つ以上のオプションを指定できる。
オプションに
.B no
を前置することもでき、
この場合は動作を行わないオプションを指定したことになる。
.TP
.BR \-q , " \-\-quiet"
.\"O Suppress "not mounted" error messages.
"not mounted" というエラーメッセージを抑止する。
.TP
.BR \-R , " \-\-recursive"
.\"O Recursively unmount each specified directory.  Recursion for each directory will
.\"O stop if any unmount operation in the chain fails for any reason.  The relationship
.\"O between mountpoints is determined by /proc/self/mountinfo entries.  The filesystem
.\"O must be specified by mountpoint path; a recursive unmount by device name (or UUID)
.\"O is unsupported.
指定された各ディレクトリを再帰的にアンマウントする。
各ディレクトリの再帰は、チェーンのアンマウント操作が何らかの理由で
失敗した場合にストップする。
マウントポイント間の関係は /proc/self/mountinfo エントリで決定される。
ファイルシステムはマウントポイントのパスで指定しなればならない。
デバイス名 (または UUID) での再帰的アンマウントはサポートされない。
.TP
.BR \-r , " \-\-read\-only"
.\"O When an unmount fails, try to remount the filesystem read-only.
アンマウントが失敗した場合、リードオンリーでファイルシステムの
再マウントを試みる。
.TP
.BR \-t , " \-\-types " \fItype\fR...
.\"O Indicate that the actions should only be taken on filesystems of the
.\"O specified
.\"O .IR type .
.\"O More than one type may be specified in a comma-separated list.  The list
.\"O of filesystem types can be prefixed with
.\"O .B no
.\"O to indicate that no action should be taken for all of the mentioned types.
指定した
.I type
のファイルシステムにのみに対して動作を行う。
複数のファイルシステムをコンマで区切ったリストで指定することも
できる。
ファイルシステムのリストに
.B no
を前置することもでき、
この場合は動作を行わないファイルシステムのタイプを指定したことに
なる。
.\"O Note that
.\"O .B umount
.\"O reads information about mounted filesystems from kernel (/proc/mounts) and
.\"O filesystem names may be different than filesystem names used in the /etc/fstab
.\"O (e.g. "nfs4" vs. "nfs").
.B umount
はマウントされているファイルシステムの情報をカーネル (/proc/mounts) から読み取り、
そのファイルシステム名が、
/etc/fstab で使われているファイルシステム名とは異なるかもしれない点に
注意すること (例えば、"nfs4" と "nfs")。
.TP
.BR \-v , " \-\-verbose"
.\"O Verbose mode.
詳細表示モード。
.TP
.BR \-V , " \-\-version"
.\"O Display version information and exit.
バージョン情報を表示して、終了する。
.TP
.BR \-h , " \-\-help"
.\"O Display help text and exit.
ヘルプを表示して、終了する。
.\"O .SH "LOOP DEVICE"
.SH "LOOP デバイス"
.\"O The
.\"O .B umount
.\"O command will automatically detach loop device previously initialized by
.\"O .BR mount (8)
.\"O command independently of /etc/mtab.
The
.B umount
command will automatically detach loop device previously initialized by
.BR mount (8)
command independently of /etc/mtab.

.\"O In this case the device is initialized with "autoclear" flag (see
.\"O .BR losetup (8)
.\"O output for more details), otherwise it's necessary to use the option \fB \-\-detach\-loop\fR
.\"O or call \fBlosetup -d <device>\fR. The autoclear feature is supported since Linux 2.6.25.
In this case the device is initialized with "autoclear" flag (see
.BR losetup (8)
output for more details), otherwise it's necessary to use the option \fB \-\-detach\-loop\fR
or call \fBlosetup -d <device>\fR. The autoclear feature is supported since Linux 2.6.25.
.\"O .SH EXTERNAL HELPERS
.SH 外部ヘルパー
.\"O The syntax of external unmount helpers is:
The syntax of external unmount helpers is:
.PP
.RS
.BI umount. suffix
.RI { directory | device }
.RB [ \-flnrv ]
.RB [ \-N
.IR namespace ]
.RB [ \-t
.IR type . subtype ]
.RE
.PP
.\"O where \fIsuffix\fR is the filesystem type (or the value from a
.\"O \fBuhelper=\fR or \fBhelper=\fR marker in the mtab file).
.\"O The \fB\-t\fR option can be used for filesystems that
.\"O have subtype support.  For example:
where \fIsuffix\fR is the filesystem type (or the value from a
\fBuhelper=\fR or \fBhelper=\fR marker in the mtab file).
The \fB\-t\fR option can be used for filesystems that
have subtype support.  For example:
.PP
.RS
.B umount.fuse \-t fuse.sshfs
.RE
.PP
.\"O A \fBuhelper=\fIsomething\fR marker (unprivileged helper) can appear in
.\"O the \fI/etc/mtab\fR file when ordinary users need to be able to unmount
.\"O a mountpoint that is not defined in \fI/etc/fstab\fR
.\"O (for example for a device that was mounted by \fBudisks\fR(1)).
A \fBuhelper=\fIsomething\fR marker (unprivileged helper) can appear in
the \fI/etc/mtab\fR file when ordinary users need to be able to unmount
a mountpoint that is not defined in \fI/etc/fstab\fR
(for example for a device that was mounted by \fBudisks\fR(1)).
.PP
.\"O A \fBhelper=\fItype\fR marker in the mtab file will redirect
.\"O all unmount requests
.\"O to the \fB/sbin/umount.\fItype\fR helper independently of UID.
A \fBhelper=\fItype\fR marker in the mtab file will redirect
all unmount requests
to the \fB/sbin/umount.\fItype\fR helper independently of UID.
.PP
.\"O Note that \fI/etc/mtab\fR is currently deprecated and helper= and another
.\"O userspace mount options are maintained by libmount.
Note that \fI/etc/mtab\fR is currently deprecated and helper= and another
userspace mount options are maintained by libmount.
.\"O .SH FILES
.SH ファイル
.TP
.I /etc/mtab
.\"O table of mounted filesystems (deprecated and usually replaced by
.\"O symlink to /proc/mounts)
table of mounted filesystems (deprecated and usually replaced by
symlink to /proc/mounts)
.TP
.I /etc/fstab
.\"O table of known filesystems
table of known filesystems
.TP
.I /proc/self/mountinfo
.\"O table of mounted filesystems generated by kernel.
table of mounted filesystems generated by kernel.
.\"O .SH ENVIRONMENT
.SH 環境変数
.IP LIBMOUNT_FSTAB=<path>
overrides the default location of the fstab file (ignored for suid)
.IP LIBMOUNT_MTAB=<path>
overrides the default location of the mtab file (ignored for suid)
.IP LIBMOUNT_DEBUG=all
enables libmount debug output
.\"O .SH "SEE ALSO"
.SH 関連項目
.BR umount (2),
.BR losetup (8),
.BR mount (8)
.\"O .SH HISTORY
.SH 履歴
.\"O A
.\"O .B umount
.\"O command appeared in Version 6 AT&T UNIX.
.B umount
コマンドは Version 6 の AT&T UNIX から導入された。
.\"O .SH AVAILABILITY
.SH 入手方法
.\"O The umount command is part of the util-linux package and is available from
.\"O .UR https://\:www.kernel.org\:/pub\:/linux\:/utils\:/util-linux/
.\"O Linux Kernel Archive
.\"O .UE .
umount コマンドは util-linux パッケージの一部であり、
.UR https://\:www.kernel.org\:/pub\:/linux\:/utils\:/util-linux/
Linux Kernel Archive
.UE
から入手できる。
