.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 2007 by Theodore Ts'o.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" This file may be copied under the terms of the GNU Public License.
.\"
.\" Japanese Version Copyright (c) 2020 Yuichi SATO
.\"         all rights reserved.
.\" Translated Sat May  2 03:43:13 JST 2020
.\"         by Yuichi SATO <ysato444@ybb.ne.jp>
.\" Updated & Modified Thu Feb  4 23:08:59 JST 2021 by Yuichi SATO
.\"
.TH UUIDD 8 "July 2014" "util-linux" "System Administration"
.\"O .SH NAME
.SH 名前
.\"O uuidd \- UUID generation daemon
uuidd \- UUID 生成デーモン
.\"O .SH SYNOPSIS
.SH 書式
.B uuidd
[options]
.\"O .SH DESCRIPTION
.SH 説明
.\"O The
.\"O .B uuidd
.\"O daemon is used by the UUID library to generate
.\"O universally unique identifiers (UUIDs), especially time-based UUIDs,
.\"O in a secure and guaranteed-unique fashion, even in the face of large
.\"O numbers of threads running on different CPUs trying to grab UUIDs.
.B uuidd
デーモンは UUID ライブラリによって使用され、
UUID (universally unique identifier: 汎システム的に他とは重ならない識別子)、
特に時刻ベースの UUID を生成する。
多くのスレッドが別々の CPU で UUID を取得しようとした場合でも、
生成はセキュアで一意性が保証されるやり方で行われる。
.\"O .SH OPTIONS
.SH オプション
.TP
.BR \-d , " \-\-debug "
.\"O Run uuidd in debugging mode.  This prevents uuidd from running as a daemon.
uuidd をデバッグモードで実行する。uuidd をデーモンとして実行しないようにする。
.TP
.BR \-F , " \-\-no-fork "
.\"O Do not daemonize using a double-fork.
二重 fork を使ってデーモン化を行わない。
.TP
.BR \-k , " \-\-kill "
.\"O If currently a uuidd daemon is running, kill it.
現在 uuidd デーモンが実行中の場合、kill する。
.TP
.BR \-n , " \-\-uuids " \fInumber\fR
.\"O When issuing a test request to a running uuidd, request a bulk response
.\"O of
.\"O .I number
.\"O UUIDs.
実行中の uuidd にテストリクエストを発行する際に、
.I number
個の UUID を一括のレスポンスとして返すようにリクエストする。
.TP
.BR \-P , " \-\-no-pid "
.\"O Do not create a pid file.
pid ファイルを生成しない。
.TP
.BR \-p , " \-\-pid " \fIpath\fR
.\"O Specify the pathname where the pid file should be written.  By default,
.\"O the pid file is written to /usr/var/run/uuidd/uuidd.pid.
pid ファイルが書かれるパス名を指定する。
デフォルトでは、pid ファイルは /usr/var/run/uuidd/uuidd.pid に書かれる。
.TP
.BR \-q , " \-\-quiet "
.\"O Suppress some failure messages.
失敗メッセージを抑止する。
.TP
.BR \-r , " \-\-random "
.\"O Test uuidd by trying to connect to a running uuidd daemon and
.\"O request it to return a random-based UUID.
実行中の uuidd デーモンへの接続を試みて uuidd をテストする。
さらに乱数ベースの UUID を返すようにリクエストする。
.TP
.BR \-S , " \-\-socket-activation "
.\"O Do not create a socket but instead expect it to be provided by the calling
.\"O process.  This implies \fB--no-fork\fR and \fB--no-pid\fR.  This option is
.\"O intended to be used only with \fBsystemd\fR(1).  It needs to be enabled with
.\"O a configure option.
ソケットを作成しないが、それ以外は、呼び出し元プロセスに
提供される。
このオプションは \fB--no-fork\fR と \fB--no-pid\fR を暗黙のうちに指定する。
このオプションは \fBsystemd\fR(1) と一緒に使うことのみを意図している。
これは設定オプションで有効にする必要がある。
.TP
.BR \-s , " \-\-socket " \fIpath\fR
.\"O Make uuidd use this pathname for the unix-domain socket.  By default, the
.\"O pathname used is /usr/var/run/uuidd/request.  This option is primarily
.\"O for debugging purposes, since the pathname is hard-coded in the libuuid
.\"O library.
このパス名を unix ドメインソケットとして uuidd に使わせる。
デフォルトでは、使用されるパス名は /usr/var/run/uuidd/request である。
このオプションは主としてデバッグ目的であるので、
パス名は libuuid ライブラリにハードコードされている。
.TP
.BR \-T , " \-\-timeout " \fInumber\fR
.\"O Make uuidd exit after \fInumber\fR seconds of inactivity.
\fInumber\fR 秒間、無反応である場合、uuidd を終了させる。
.TP
.BR \-t , " \-\-time "
.\"O Test uuidd by trying to connect to a running uuidd daemon and
.\"O request it to return a time-based UUID.
実行中の uuidd デーモンへの接続を試みて uuidd をテストする。
さらに時刻ベースの UUID を返すようにリクエストする。
.TP
.BR \-V , " \-\-version "
.\"O Output version information and exit.
バージョン情報を表示して、終了する。
.TP
.BR \-h , " \-\-help "
.\"O Display help screen and exit.
ヘルプ画面を表示して、終了する。
.\"O .SH EXAMPLE
.SH 例
.\"O Start up a daemon, print 42 random keys, and then stop the daemon:
デーモンを起動して、42 個の乱数キーを表示して、デーモンを終了する。
.PP
.RS
.nf
uuidd -p /tmp/uuidd.pid -s /tmp/uuidd.socket
uuidd -d -r -n 42 -s /tmp/uuidd.socket
uuidd -d -k -s /tmp/uuidd.socket
.nf
.RE
.\"O .SH AUTHOR
.SH 著者
.\"O The
.\"O .B uuidd
.\"O daemon was written by Theodore Ts'o <tytso@mit.edu>.
.B uuidd
デーモンは Theodore Ts'o <tytso@mit.edu> によって書かれた。
.\"O .SH "SEE ALSO"
.SH 関連項目
.BR uuid (3),
.BR uuidgen (1)
.\"O .SH AVAILABILITY
.SH 入手方法
.\"O The uuidd daemon is part of the util-linux package and is available from the
.\"O .UR https://\:www.kernel.org\:/pub\:/linux\:/utils\:/util-linux/
.\"O Linux Kernel Archive
.\"O .UE .
uuidd デーモンは util-linux パッケージの一部であり、
.UR https://\:www.kernel.org\:/pub\:/linux\:/utils\:/util-linux/
Linux Kernel Archive
.UE
から入手できる。
