.\" Copyright (c) 1983, 1991 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)vipw.8	6.7 (Berkeley) 3/16/91
.\"
.\" Japanese Version Copyright (c) 1997 NAKANO Takeo all rights reserved.
.\" Translated Thu Aug 22 1997 by NAKANO Takeo <nakano@@apm.seikei.ac.jp>
.\" Updated & Modified
.\"         by Yuichi SATO <ysato444@ybb.ne.jp>
.\"
.TH VIPW "8" "September 2011" "util-linux" "System Administration"
.\"O .SH NAME
.SH 名前
.\"O vipw, vigr \- edit the password or group file
vipw, vigr \- passwd ファイル、 group ファイルを編集する
.\"O .SH SYNOPSIS
.SH 書式
.B vipw
[options]
.br
.B vigr
[options]
.\"O .SH DESCRIPTION
.SH 説明
.\"O .B vipw
.\"O edits the password file after setting the appropriate locks,
.\"O and does any necessary processing after the password file is unlocked.
.\"O If the password file is already locked for editing by another user,
.\"O .B vipw
.\"O will ask you
.\"O to try again later.  The default editor for
.\"O .B vipw
.\"O and
.\"O .B vigr
.\"O is
.\"O .BR vi (1).
.B vipw
はパスワードファイルに適当なロックをかけてからこれを編集する。
そしてアンロックしてから必要な後処理を行う。
もしパスワードファイルがすでに他のユーザによって、編集用にロック
されていたら、
.B vipw
は時間をおいてから再度実行するようにプロンプトを出す。
.B vipw
と
.B vigr
のデフォルトのエディタは
.BR vi (1)
である。
.\"O .B vigr
.\"O edits the group file in the same manner as
.\"O .B vipw
.\"O does the passwd file.
.B vipw
が passwd ファイルを編集するのと同じように、
.B vigr
は group ファイルを編集する。
.\"O .SH ENVIRONMENT
.SH 環境変数
.\"O If the following environment variable exists, it will be utilized by
.\"O .B vipw
.\"O and
.\"O .BR vigr :
以下の環境変数が存在する場合、
.B vipw
と
.B vigr
で利用される:
.I
.TP
.B EDITOR
.\"O The editor specified by the string
.\"O .B EDITOR
.\"O will be invoked instead of the default editor
.\"O .BR vi (1).
文字列
.B EDITOR
で設定されているエディタが、デフォルトのエディタ
.BR vi (1)
の代わりに実行される。
.\"O .SH SEE ALSO
.SH 関連項目
.BR vi (1),
.BR passwd (1),
.BR flock (2),
.BR passwd (5)
.\"O .SH HISTORY
.SH 履歴
.\"O The
.\"O .B vipw
.\"O command appeared in 4.0BSD.
.B vipw
コマンドは 4.0BSD から導入された。
.br
.\"O The
.\"O .B vigr
.\"O command appeared in Util-Linux 2.6.
.B vigr
コマンドは Util-Linux 2.6 から導入された。
.\"O .SH AVAILABILITY
.SH 入手方法
.\"O The vigr and vipw commands are part of the util-linux package and are available from
.\"O .UR https://\:www.kernel.org\:/pub\:/linux\:/utils\:/util-linux/
.\"O Linux Kernel Archive
.\"O .UE .
vigr と vipw コマンドは util-linux パッケージの一部であり、
.UR https://\:www.kernel.org\:/pub\:/linux\:/utils\:/util-linux/
Linux Kernel Archive
.UE
から入手できる。
