.\"
.\" Japanese Version Copyright (c) 2019 Yuichi SATO
.\"         all rights reserved.
.\" Translated Sun Jul  7 02:43:25 JST 2019
.\"         by Yuichi SATO <ysato444@ybb.ne.jp>
.\"
.TH CIFSIOSTAT 1 "JULY 2018" Linux "Linux User's Manual" -*- nroff -*-
.\"O .SH NAME
.SH 名前
.\"O cifsiostat \- Report CIFS statistics.
cifsiostat \- CIFS の統計をレポートする。
.\"O .SH SYNOPSIS
.SH 書式
.ie 'yes'no' \{
.B cifsiostat [ -h ] [ -k | -m ] [ -t ] [ -V ] [ --debuginfo ] [ --dec={ 0 | 1 | 2 } ] [ --human ] [
.I interval
.B [
.I count
.B ] ]
.\}
.el \{
.B cifsiostat [ -h ] [ -k | -m ] [ -t ] [ -V ] [ --dec={ 0 | 1 | 2 } ] [ --human ] [
.I interval
.B [
.I count
.B ] ]
.\}
.\"O .SH DESCRIPTION
.SH 説明
.\"O The
.\"O .B cifsiostat
.\"O command displays statistics about read and write operations
.\"O on CIFS filesystems.
.B cifsiostat
コマンドは CIFS ファイルシステムの読み込みと書き込みの操作の統計を表示する。

.\"O The
.\"O .I interval
.\"O parameter specifies the amount of time in seconds between
.\"O each report. The first report contains statistics for the time since
.\"O system startup (boot). Each subsequent report contains statistics
.\"O collected during the interval since the previous report.
.I interval
パラメータは各レポート間の時間を指定する。
最初のレポートにはシステムのスタートアップ (ブート) からの統計が含まれる。
その後のレポートには、前のレポートからの間に収集された統計が
レポートされる。
.\"O A report consists of a CIFS header row followed by
.\"O a line of statistics for each CIFS filesystem that is mounted.
レポートは CIFS ヘッダ行の後に、
マウントされている各 CIFS ファイルシステムの統計の行が続く。
.\"O The
.\"O .I count
.\"O parameter can be specified in conjunction with the
.\"O .I interval
.\"O parameter. If the
.\"O .I count
.\"O parameter is specified, the value of
.\"O .I count
.\"O determines the number of reports generated at
.\"O .I interval
.\"O seconds apart. If the
.\"O .I interval
.\"O parameter is specified without the
.\"O .I count
.\"O parameter, the
.\"O .B cifsiostat
.\"O command generates reports continuously.
.I count
パラメータは
.I interval
パラメータと組み合わせて使われる。
.I count
パラメータが指定されると、
.I count
は
.I interval
秒ごとに生成される回数を決定する。
.I count
パラメータを指定せずに
.I interval
パラメータを指定すると、
.B cifsiostat
コマンドは連続してレポートを生成する。

.\"O .SH REPORT
.SH レポート
.\"O The CIFS report provides statistics for each mounted CIFS filesystem.
CIFS レポートはマウントされている各 CIFS ファイルシステムの統計を提供する。
.\"O The report shows the following fields:
レポートには以下のフィールドが表示される。

.B Filesystem:
.RS
.\"O This columns shows the mount point of the CIFS filesystem.
この列には CIFS ファイルシステムのマウントポイントが表示される。

.RE
.B rB/s (rkB/s, rMB/s)
.RS
.\"O Indicate the average number of bytes (kilobytes, megabytes) read per second.
1 秒あたりに読み込まれた平均バイト (キロバイト、メガバイト) 数。

.RE
.B wB/s (wkB/s, wMB/s)
.RS
.\"O Indicate the average number of bytes (kilobytes, megabytes) written per second.
1 秒あたりに書き込まれた平均バイト (キロバイト、メガバイト) 数。

.RE
.B rop/s
.RS
.\"O Indicate the number of 'read' operations that were issued to the filesystem
.\"O per second.
1 秒あたりにファイルシステムに発行された 'read' 操作の回数。

.RE
.B wop/s
.RS
.\"O Indicate the number of 'write' operations that were issued to the filesystem
.\"O per second.
1 秒あたりにファイルシステムに発行された 'write' 操作の回数。

.RE
.B fo/s
.RS
.\"O Indicate the number of open files per second.
1 秒あたりにオープンしたファイル数。

.RE
.B fc/s
.RS
.\"O Indicate the number of closed files per second.
1 秒あたりにクローズしたファイル数。

.RE
.B fd/s
.RS
.\"O Indicate the number of deleted files per second.
1 秒あたりに削除したファイル数。
.RE
.RE
.\"O .SH OPTIONS
.SH オプション
.if 'yes'no' \{
.IP --debuginfo
.\"O Print debug output to stderr.
デバック出力を標準エラー出力に行う。
.\}
.IP "--dec={ 0 | 1 | 2 }"
.\"O Specify the number of decimal places to use (0 to 2, default value is 2).
使用する小数点の位置を指定する (0 から 2 で、デフォルトは 2 である)。
.IP -h
.\"O Make the CIFS report easier to read by a human.
.\"O .B --human
.\"O is enabled implicitly with this option.
CIFS レポートを人間が読みやすいようにする。
このオプションは、
.B --human
を暗黙裡に有効にする。
.IP --human
.\"O Print sizes in human readable format (e.g. 1.0k, 1.2M, etc.)
.\"O The units displayed with this option supersede any other default units (e.g.
.\"O kilobytes, sectors...) associated with the metrics.
サイズを人間が読みやすいフォーマット (例えば 1.0k, 1.2M など) で表示する。
このオプションで表示される単位は、指標に紐付けられたデフォルトの単位
(例えば、キロバイト、セクターなど) を上書きする。
.IP -k
.\"O Display statistics in kilobytes per second.
1 秒あたりのキロバイトで統計を表示する。
.IP -m
.\"O Display statistics in megabytes per second.
1 秒あたりのメガバイトで統計を表示する。
.IP -t
.\"O Print the time for each report displayed. The timestamp format may depend
.\"O on the value of the S_TIME_FORMAT environment variable (see below).
各レポートで時間を表示する。
タイムスタンプの形式は、S_TIME_FORMAT 環境変数の値に依存する
(下記を参照)。
.IP -V
.\"O Print version number then exit.
バージョン番号を表示して、終了する。

.\"O .SH ENVIRONMENT
.SH 環境変数
.\"O The
.\"O .B cifsiostat
.\"O command takes into account the following environment variables:
.B cifsiostat
コマンドは以下の環境変数を扱う。

.IP S_COLORS
.\"O When this variable is set, display statistics in color on the terminal.
この環境変数を設定すると、端末上で統計をカラー表示する。
.\"O Possible values for this variable are
.\"O .IR never ,
.\"O .IR always
.\"O or
.\"O .IR auto
.\"O (the latter is the default).
この環境変数に指定可能な値は、
.IR never ,
.IR always ,
.I auto
である (最後がデフォルトである)。

.\"O Please note that the color (being red, yellow, or some other color) used to display a value
.\"O is not indicative of any kind of issue simply because of the color. It only indicates different
.\"O ranges of values.
値を表示する色 (赤、黄、またはその他の色) は、色によって何かの意味を示している訳ではない。
色は値の範囲を示しているだけである。

.IP S_COLORS_SGR
.\"O Specify the colors and other attributes used to display statistics on the terminal.
.\"O Its value is a colon-separated list of capabilities that defaults to
.\"O .BR I=32;22:N=34;1:Z=34;22 .
.\"O Supported capabilities are:
端末で統計を表示する際に、色とその他の属性を指定する。
この値は、コロン区切りの機能のリストで、デフォルトは
.B I=32;22:N=34;1:Z=34;22
である。
サポートされている機能は以下のとおり。

.RS
.TP
.B I=
.\"O SGR substring for filesystem names.
ファイルシステム名を表示する SGR 部分文字列。

.TP
.B N=
.\"O SGR substring for non-zero statistics values.
0 以外の統計値を表示する SGR 部分文字列。

.TP
.B Z=
.\"O SGR substring for zero values.
0 を表示する SGR 部分文字列。
.RE

.IP S_TIME_FORMAT
.\"O If this variable exists and its value is
.\"O .BR ISO
.\"O then the current locale will be ignored when printing the date in the report
.\"O header. The
.\"O .B cifsiostat
.\"O command will use the ISO 8601 format (YYYY-MM-DD) instead.
この環境変数が存在し、かつ値が
.B ISO
の場合、レポートのヘッダの日付を表示する際に、
現在のロケールを無視する。
代わりに、
.B cifsiostat
コマンドは ISO 8601 フォーマット (YYYY-MM-DD) を使う。
.\"O The timestamp displayed with option -t will also be compliant with ISO 8601
.\"O format.
-t オプションのタイムスタンプも ISO 8601 フォーマットに従う。

.\"O .SH BUG
.SH バグ
.\"O .I /proc
.\"O filesystem must be mounted for
.\"O .B cifsiostat
.\"O to work.
.B cifsiostat
コマンドが動作するためには、
.I /proc
ファイルシステムがマウントされていなければならない。

.\"O .SH FILE
.SH ファイル
.I /proc/fs/cifs/Stats
.\"O contains CIFS statistics.
CIFS 統計を保持する。
.\"O .SH AUTHORS
.SH 著者
.\"O Written by Ivana Varekova (varekova <at> redhat.com)
Ivana Varekova (varekova <at> redhat.com) によって書かれた。

.\"O Maintained by Sebastien Godard (sysstat <at> orange.fr)
Sebastien Godard (sysstat <at> orange.fr) によってメンテナンスされている。
.\"O .SH SEE ALSO
.SH 関連項目
.BR sar (1),
.BR pidstat (1),
.BR mpstat (1),
.BR vmstat (8),
.BR iostat (1),
.BR tapestat (1),
.BR nfsiostat (1)

.I https://github.com/sysstat/sysstat

.I http://pagesperso-orange.fr/sebastien.godard/
