.\"
.\" Japanese Version Copyright (c) 2019-2020 Yuichi SATO
.\"         all rights reserved.
.\" Translated Sat Jul  6 20:17:27 JST 2019
.\"         by Yuichi SATO <ysato444@ybb.ne.jp>
.\" Updated & Modified Fri Mar 20 04:02:42 JST 2020
.\"         by Yuichi SATO
.\"
.TH IOSTAT 1 "NOVEMBER 2018" Linux "Linux User's Manual" -*- nroff -*-
.\"O .SH NAME
.SH 名前
.\"O iostat \- Report Central Processing Unit (CPU) statistics and input/output
.\"O statistics for devices and partitions.
iostat \- 中央演算装置 (CPU) の統計と、
デバイスとパーティションの入出力の統計をレポートする。
.\"O .SH SYNOPSIS
.SH 書式
.ie 'yes'no' \{
.B iostat [ -c ] [ -d ] [ -h ] [ -k | -m ] [ -N ] [ -s ] [ -t ] [ -V ] [ -x ] [ -y ] [ -z ]
.B [ --dec={ 0 | 1 | 2 } ] [ -j { ID | LABEL | PATH | UUID | ... } ] [ -o JSON ]
.B [ [ -H ] -g
.I group_name
.B ] [ --human ] [ -p [
.I device
.B [,...] | ALL ] ] [
.I device
.B [...] | ALL ] [ --debuginfo ] [
.I interval
.B [
.I count
.B ] ]
.\}
.el \{
.B iostat [ -c ] [ -d ] [ -h ] [ -k | -m ] [ -N ] [ -s ] [ -t ] [ -V ] [ -x ] [ -y ] [ -z ]
.B [ --dec={ 0 | 1 | 2 } ] [ -j { ID | LABEL | PATH | UUID | ... } ] [ -o JSON ]
.B [ [ -H ] -g
.I group_name
.B ] [ --human ] [ -p [
.I device
.B [,...] | ALL ] ] [
.I device
.B [...] | ALL ] [
.I interval
.B [
.I count
.B ] ]
.\}
.\"O .SH DESCRIPTION
.SH 説明
.\"O The
.\"O .B iostat
.\"O command is used for monitoring system input/output device
.\"O loading by observing the time the devices are active in relation
.\"O to their average transfer rates. The
.\"O .B iostat
.\"O command generates reports
.\"O that can be used to change system configuration to better balance
.\"O the input/output load between physical disks.
.B iostat
コマンドはシステムの入出力デバイス負荷をモニタリングするのに使う。
負荷として、平均転送レートに関連するデバイスがアクティブな時間を計測する。
.B iostat
は、物理ディスク間の入出力負荷のバランスをよくするための
システム設定の変更に使えるレポートを生成する。

.\"O The first report generated by the
.\"O .B iostat
.\"O command provides statistics
.\"O concerning the time since the system was booted, unless the
.\"O .B -y
.\"O option is used (in this case, this first report is omitted).
.B iostat
が生成する最初のレポートは、
.B -y
オプション (この場合、最初のレポートを省略する) が指定されない限り、
システムがブートしてからの時間に関しての統計を提供する。
.\"O Each subsequent report
.\"O covers the time since the previous report. All statistics are reported
.\"O each time the
.\"O .B iostat
.\"O command is run. The report consists of a
.\"O CPU header row followed by a row of
.\"O CPU statistics. On
.\"O multiprocessor systems, CPU statistics are calculated system-wide
.\"O as averages among all processors. A device header row is displayed
.\"O followed by a line of statistics for each device that is configured.
それに続くレポートは、その前のレポートからの時間をカバーしている。
.B iostat
が実行されるたびに、すべての統計がレポートされる。
レポートは CPU ヘッダ行に続いて、CPU 統計の行が表示される。
複数プロセッサのシステムでは、CPU 統計はシステム全体のすべての
プロセッサの平均が計算される。
デバイスヘッダ行に続いて、設定された各デバイスの統計行が表示される。

.\"O The
.\"O .I interval
.\"O parameter specifies the amount of time in seconds between
.\"O each report. The
.\"O .I count
.\"O parameter can be specified in conjunction with the
.\"O .I interval
.\"O parameter. If the
.\"O .I count
.\"O parameter is specified, the value of
.\"O .I count
.\"O determines the number of reports generated at
.\"O .I interval
.\"O seconds apart. If the
.\"O .I interval
.\"O parameter is specified without the
.\"O .I count
.\"O parameter, the
.\"O .B iostat
.\"O command generates reports continuously.
.I interval
パラメータは各レポート間の時間を指定する。
.I count
パラメータは
.I interval
パラメータと組み合わせて使われる。
.I count
パラメータが指定されると、
.I count
は
.I interval
秒ごとに生成される回数を決定する。
.I count
パラメータを指定せずに
.I interval
パラメータを指定すると、
.B iostat
コマンドは連続してレポートを生成する。

.\"O .SH REPORTS
.SH レポート
.\"O The
.\"O .B iostat
.\"O command generates two types of reports, the CPU
.\"O Utilization report and the Device Utilization report.
.B iostat
は、CPU 利用レポートとデバイス利用レポートの 2 つを生成する。
.\"O .IP "CPU Utilization Report"
.IP "CPU 利用レポート"
.\"O The first report generated by the
.\"O .B iostat
.\"O command is the CPU
.\"O Utilization Report. For multiprocessor systems, the CPU values are
.\"O global averages among all processors.
.B iostat
コマンドで生成される最初のレポートは、
CPU 利用レポートである。
複数プロセッサのシステムでは、
CPU の値はすべてのプロセッサの全体の平均である。
.\"O The report has the following format:
レポートは以下のフォーマットである。

.B %user
.RS
.RS
.\"O Show the percentage of CPU utilization that occurred while
.\"O executing at the user level (application).
ユーザレベル (アプリケーション) の実行で発生する CPU 利用の割合。
.RE

.B %nice
.RS
.\"O Show the percentage of CPU utilization that occurred while
.\"O executing at the user level with nice priority.
nice 優先度が指定されたユーザレベル (アプリケーション) の
実行で発生する CPU 利用の割合。
.RE

.B %system
.RS
.\"O Show the percentage of CPU utilization that occurred while
.\"O executing at the system level (kernel).
システムレベル (カーネル) の実行で発生する CPU 利用の割合。
.RE

.B %iowait
.RS
.\"O Show the percentage of time that the CPU or CPUs were idle during which
.\"O the system had an outstanding disk I/O request.
システムに目立ったディスク I/O リクエストがあり、
CPU (群) がアイドル状態であった時間の割合。
.RE

.B %steal
.RS
.\"O Show the percentage of time spent in involuntary wait by the virtual CPU
.\"O or CPUs while the hypervisor was servicing another virtual processor.
ハイパーバイザーが他の仮想プロセッサに
サービスを行っているために、
仮想 CPU (群) が不本意に待たされている時間の割合。
.RE

.B %idle
.RS
.\"O Show the percentage of time that the CPU or CPUs were idle and the system
.\"O did not have an outstanding disk I/O request.
CPU (群) がアイドル状態でシステムに目立った
ディスク I/O リクエストがなかった時間の割合。
.RE
.RE
.\"O .IP "Device Utilization Report"
.IP "デバイス利用レポート"
.\"O The second report generated by the
.\"O .B iostat
.\"O command is the Device Utilization
.\"O Report. The device report provides statistics on a per physical device
.\"O or partition basis. Block devices and partitions for which statistics are
.\"O to be displayed may be entered on the command line.
.B iostat
コマンドが生成する 2 つ目のレポートは、
デバイス利用レポートである。
デバイスレポートは、物理デバイスまたはパーティションベースの
統計を提供する。
統計を表示するデバイスまたはパーティションは、
コマンドラインから指定できる。
.\"O If no device nor partition
.\"O is entered, then statistics are displayed
.\"O for every device used by the system, and
.\"O providing that the kernel maintains statistics for it.
デバイスとパーティションが指定されない場合、
カーネルが統計を保持していて、
かつシステムで使われているすべてのデバイスの統計が表示される。
.\"O If the
.\"O .B ALL
.\"O keyword is given on the command line, then statistics are
.\"O displayed for every device defined by the system, including those
.\"O that have never been used.
.B ALL
キーワードがコマンドラインから指定された場合、
使用されていないデバイスを含めて、全てのデバイスの統計が表示される。
.\"O Transfer rates are shown in 1K blocks by default, unless the environment
.\"O variable POSIXLY_CORRECT is set, in which case 512-byte blocks are used.
.\"O The report may show the following fields,
.\"O depending on the flags used:
環境変数 POSIXLY_CORRECT が指定されない限り、
転送レートは 1K ブロックをデフォルトとして表示される。
環境変数 POSIXLY_CORRECT が指定されると、
512 バイトブロックが使われる。
使用されるフラグに依存して、以下のフィールドがレポートに表示される。

.B Device:
.RS
.RS
.\"O This column gives the device (or partition) name as listed in the /dev
.\"O directory.
この列は /dev ディレクトリにリストされている
デバイス (またはパーティション) 名を表示する。

.RE
.B tps
.RS
.\"O Indicate the number of transfers per second that were issued
.\"O to the device. A transfer is an I/O request to the
.\"O device. Multiple logical requests can be combined into a single I/O
.\"O request to the device. A transfer is of indeterminate size.
1 秒あたりにデバイスに発行された転送回数。
転送はデバイスへの I/O リクエストである。
複数の論理リクエストがデバイスへの
1 つの I/O リクエストにまとめられる場合もある。
転送サイズは不定である。

.RE
.B Blk_read/s (kB_read/s, MB_read/s)
.RS
.\"O Indicate the amount of data read from the device expressed in a number of
.\"O blocks (kilobytes, megabytes) per second. Blocks are equivalent to sectors
.\"O and therefore have a size of 512 bytes.
1 秒あたりのデバイスからの読み込みデータのブロック数 (キロバイト数、メガバイト数)。
ブロックはセクターと等価で、サイズは 512 バイトである。

.RE
.B Blk_wrtn/s (kB_wrtn/s, MB_wrtn/s)
.RS
.\"O Indicate the amount of data written to the device expressed in a number of
.\"O blocks (kilobytes, megabytes) per second.
1 秒あたりのデバイスへのの書き込みデータのブロック数 (キロバイト数、メガバイト数)。

.RE
.B Blk_dscd/s (kB_dscd/s, MB_dscd/s)
.RS
.\"O Indicate the amount of data discarded for the device expressed in a number of
.\"O blocks (kilobytes, megabytes) per second.
1 秒あたりのデバイスから破棄されたデータのブロック数 (キロバイト数、メガバイト数)。

.RE
.B Blk_read (kB_read, MB_read)
.RS
.\"O The total number of blocks (kilobytes, megabytes) read.
読み込みの総計ブロック数 (キロバイト数、メガバイト数)。

.RE
.B Blk_wrtn (kB_wrtn, MB_wrtn)
.RS
.\"O The total number of blocks (kilobytes, megabytes) written.
書き込みの総計ブロック数 (キロバイト数、メガバイト数)。

.RE
.B Blk_dscd (kB_dscd, MB_dscd)
.RS
.\"O The total number of blocks (kilobytes, megabytes) discarded.
破棄された総計ブロック数 (キロバイト数、メガバイト数)。

.RE
.B r/s
.RS
.\"O The number (after merges) of read requests completed per second for the device.
1 秒あたりの (マージ後の) デバイスからの読み込みが完了したリクエスト数。

.RE
.B w/s
.RS
.\"O The number (after merges) of write requests completed per second for the device.
1 秒あたりの (マージ後の) デバイスへの書き込みが完了したリクエスト数。

.RE
.B d/s
.RS
.\"O The number (after merges) of discard requests completed per second for the device.
1 秒あたりの (マージ後の) デバイスからの破棄が完了したリクエスト数。

.RE
.B sec/s (kB/s, MB/s)
.RS
.\"O The number of sectors (kilobytes, megabytes) read from, written to or
.\"O discarded for the device per second.
1 秒あたりのデバイスに対する読み込みと書き出しと破棄のセクタ数 (キロバイト数、メガバイト数)。

.RE
.B rsec/s (rkB/s, rMB/s)
.RS
.\"O The number of sectors (kilobytes, megabytes) read from the device per second.
1 秒あたりのデバイスからの読み込みセクタ数 (キロバイト数、メガバイト数)。

.RE
.B wsec/s (wkB/s, wMB/s)
.RS
.\"O The number of sectors (kilobytes, megabytes) written to the device per second.
1 秒あたりのデバイスへの書き出しセクタ数 (キロバイト数、メガバイト数)。

.RE
.B dsec/s (dkB/s, dMB/s)
.RS
.\"O The number of sectors (kilobytes, megabytes) discarded for the device per second.
1 秒あたりのデバイスから破棄されたセクタ数 (キロバイト数、メガバイト数)。

.RE
.B rqm/s
.RS
.\"O The number of I/O requests merged per second that were queued to the device.
1 秒あたりのデバイスにキューイングされたマージされた I/O リクエスト数。

.RE
.B rrqm/s
.RS
.\"O The number of read requests merged per second that were queued to the device.
1 秒あたりのデバイスにキューイングされたマージされた
読み込みリクエスト数。

.RE
.B wrqm/s
.RS
.\"O The number of write requests merged per second that were queued to the device.
1 秒あたりのデバイスにキューイングされたマージされた
書き込みリクエスト数。

.RE
.B drqm/s
.RS
.\"O The number of discard requests merged per second that were queued to the device.
1 秒あたりのデバイスにキューイングされたマージされた
破棄リクエスト数。

.RE
.B %rrqm
.RS
.\"O The percentage of read requests merged together before being sent to the device.
デバイスに送られる前にマージされた読み込みリクエストの割合。

.RE
.B %wrqm
.RS
.\"O The percentage of write requests merged together before being sent to the device.
デバイスに送られる前にマージされた書き込みリクエストの割合。

.RE
.B %drqm
.RS
.\"O The percentage of discard requests merged together before being sent to the device.
デバイスに送られる前にマージされた破棄リクエストの割合。

.RE
.B areq-sz
.RS
.\"O The average size (in kilobytes) of the I/O requests that were issued to the device.
デバイスに発行した I/O リクエストの平均サイズ (キロバイト)。
.br
.\"O Note: In previous versions, this field was known as avgrq-sz and was expressed in
.\"O sectors.
以前のバージョンでは、このフィールドは avgrq-sz であり、セクタ数を表していた。

.RE
.B rareq-sz
.RS
.\"O The average size (in kilobytes) of the read requests that were issued to the
.\"O device.
デバイスに発行した読み込みリクエストの平均サイズ (キロバイト)。

.RE
.B wareq-sz
.RS
.\"O The average size (in kilobytes) of the write requests that were issued to the
.\"O device.
デバイスに発行した書き込みリクエストの平均サイズ (キロバイト)。

.RE
.B dareq-sz
.RS
.\"O The average size (in kilobytes) of the discard requests that were issued to the
.\"O device.
デバイスに発行した破棄リクエストの平均サイズ (キロバイト)。

.RE
.B await
.RS
.\"O The average time (in milliseconds) for I/O requests issued to the device
.\"O to be served. This includes the time spent by the requests in queue and
.\"O the time spent servicing them.
デバイスに発行した I/O リクエストが処理されるまでの平均時間 (ミリ秒)。
この時間には、リクエストがキューに入っている時間と、
処理される時間が含まれる。

.RE
.B r_await
.RS
.\"O The average time (in milliseconds) for read requests issued to the device
.\"O to be served. This includes the time spent by the requests in queue and
.\"O the time spent servicing them.
デバイスに発行した読み込みリクエストが処理されるまでの
平均時間 (ミリ秒)。
この時間には、リクエストがキューに入っている時間と、
処理される時間が含まれる。

.RE
.B w_await
.RS
.\"O The average time (in milliseconds) for write requests issued to the device
.\"O to be served. This includes the time spent by the requests in queue and
.\"O the time spent servicing them.
デバイスに発行した書き込みリクエストが処理されるまでの
平均時間 (ミリ秒)。
この時間には、リクエストがキューに入っている時間と、
処理される時間が含まれる。

.RE
.B d_await
.RS
.\"O The average time (in milliseconds) for discard requests issued to the device
.\"O to be served. This includes the time spent by the requests in queue and
.\"O the time spent servicing them.
デバイスに発行した破棄リクエストが処理されるまでの
平均時間 (ミリ秒)。
この時間には、リクエストがキューに入っている時間と、
処理される時間が含まれる。

.RE
.B aqu-sz
.RS
.\"O The average queue length of the requests that were issued to the device.
デバイスに発行したリクエストの平均のキューの長さ。
.br
.\"O Note: In previous versions, this field was known as avgqu-sz.
以前のバージョンでは、このフィールドは avgqu-sz であった。

.RE
.B %util
.RS
.\"O Percentage of elapsed time during which I/O requess were issued to the device
.\"O (bandwidth utilization for the device). Device saturation occurs when this
.\"O value is close to 100% for devices serving requests serially.
.\"O But for devices serving requests in parallel, such as RAID arrays and
.\"O modern SSDs, this number does not reflect their performance limits.
デバイスに I/O リクエストが発行される経過時間の割合 (デバイスのバンド幅使用率)。
リクエストに対してデバイスがシリアルにサービスする場合、
この値が 100% に近いとデバイスの飽和が起こっている。
RAID アレイや最近の SSD のように、リクエストに対して
デバイスがパラレルにサービスする場合、
この値は性能限界を反映しない。
.RE
.RE
.\"O .SH OPTIONS
.SH オプション
.IP -c
.\"O Display the CPU utilization report.
CPU 利用レポートを表示する。
.IP -d
.\"O Display the device utilization report.
デバイス利用レポートを表示する。
.if 'yes'no' \{
.IP --debuginfo
.\"O Print debug output to stderr.
デバック出力を標準エラー出力に行う。
.\}
.IP "--dec={ 0 | 1 | 2 }"
.\"O Specify the number of decimal places to use (0 to 2, default value is 2).
使用する小数点の位置を指定する (0 から 2 で、デフォルトは 2 である)。
.IP "-g group_name { device [...] | ALL }"
.\"O Display statistics for a group of devices.
デバイスのグループの統計を表示する。
.\"O The
.\"O .B iostat
.\"O command reports statistics for each individual device in the list
.\"O then a line of global statistics for the group displayed as
.\"O .B group_name
.\"O and made up of all the devices in the list. The
.\"O .B ALL
.\"O keyword means that all the block devices defined by the system shall be
.\"O included in the group.
.B iostat
はリストにある各デバイスの統計をレポートしてから、
リストにあるすべてのデバイスを合わせて
.B group_name
という名前の統計の行を表示する。
.B ALL
キーワードは、システムに定義されている
すべてのブロックデバイスをグループに含めることを意味する。
.IP -H
.\"O This option must be used with option -g and indicates that only global
.\"O statistics for the group are to be displayed, and not statistics for
.\"O individual devices in the group.
このオプションは -g オプションと一緒に指定しなければならない。
このオプションを指定すると、グループ全体の統計が表示されるが、
グループの各デバイスの統計は表示されない。
.IP -h
.\"O Make the Device Utilization Report easier to read by a human.
.\"O .B --human
.\"O is enabled implicitly with this option.
デバイス利用レポートを人間が読みやすいようにする。
このオプションは、
.B --human
を暗黙裡に有効にする。
.IP --human
.\"O Print sizes in human readable format (e.g. 1.0k, 1.2M, etc.)
.\"O The units displayed with this option supersede any other default units (e.g.
.\"O kilobytes, sectors...) associated with the metrics.
サイズを人間が読みやすいフォーマット (例えば 1.0k, 1.2M など) で表示する。
このオプションで表示される単位は、指標に紐付けられたデフォルトの単位
(例えば、キロバイト、セクターなど) を上書きする。
.IP "-j { ID | LABEL | PATH | UUID | ... } [ device [...] | ALL ]"
.\"O Display persistent device names. Options
.\"O .BR ID ,
.\"O .BR LABEL ,
.\"O etc. specify the type of the persistent name. These options are not limited,
.\"O only prerequisite is that directory with required persistent names is present in
.\"O .IR /dev/disk .
永続的なデバイス名を表示する。
オプション
.BR ID ,
.B LABEL
などで、永続的なデバイス名のタイプを指定する。
このオプションは限定的ではなく、唯一の必須条件は
.I /dev/disk
のディレクトリに永続的なデバイス名が存在することである。
.\"O Optionally, multiple devices can be specified in the chosen persistent name type.
.\"O Because persistent device names are usually long, option
永続デバイス名は通常長いため、
オプションとして、選択した永続名で複数デバイスを指定できる。
.IP -k
.\"O Display statistics in kilobytes per second.
1 秒あたりのキロバイトで統計を表示する。
.IP -m
.\"O Display statistics in megabytes per second.
1 秒あたりのメガバイトで統計を表示する。
.IP -N
.\"O Display the registered device mapper names for any device mapper devices.
.\"O Useful for viewing LVM2 statistics.
登録されたデバイスマッパーのデバイスについて、
デバイスマッパー名を表示する。
LVM2 統計を閲覧するのに役立つ。
.IP "-o JSON"
.\"O Display the statistics in JSON (Javascript Object Notation) format.
統計を JSON (Javascript Object Notation) 形式で表示する。
.\"O JSON output field order is undefined, and new fields may be added
.\"O in the future.
JSON 出力のフィールド順は定義されておらず、
将来新しいフィールドが追加されるかもしれない。
.IP "-p [ { device [,...] | ALL } ]"
.\"O The -p option displays statistics for
.\"O block devices and all their partitions that are used by the system.
-p オプションはシステムで使われているブロックデバイスと
すべてのパーティションの統計を表示する。
.\"O If a device name is entered on the command line, then statistics for it
.\"O and all its partitions are displayed. Last, the
.\"O .B ALL
.\"O keyword indicates that statistics have to be displayed for all the block
.\"O devices and partitions defined by the system, including those that have
.\"O never been used. If option
.\"O .B -j
.\"O is defined before this option, devices entered on the command line can be
.\"O specified with the chosen persistent name type.
デバイス名がコマンドラインで指定された場合、
そのデバイスとすべてのパーティションが表示される。
.B ALL
キーワードは、使用されていないブロックデバイスを含む、
システムで定義されているすべてのブロックデバイスと
パーティションの統計を表示する。
このオプションより前に、オプション
.B -j
が定義されていると、コマンドラインで入力されるデバイスは、
選択された永続名タイプで指定できる。
.IP -s
.\"O Display a short (narrow) version of the report that should fit in 80
.\"O characters wide screens.
80 文字幅の画面に合うように、短い (狭い) バージョンのレポートを表示する。
.IP -t
.\"O Print the time for each report displayed. The timestamp format may depend
.\"O on the value of the S_TIME_FORMAT environment variable (see below).
各レポートで時間を表示する。
タイムスタンプの形式は、S_TIME_FORMAT 環境変数の値に依存する
(下記を参照)。
.IP -V
.\"O Print version number then exit.
バージョン番号を表示して、終了する。
.IP -x
.\"O Display extended statistics.
拡張された統計を表示する。
.IP -y
.\"O Omit first report with statistics since system boot, if displaying
.\"O multiple records at given interval.
指定された間隔で複数レコードを表示する場合、
システムブートからの統計の最初のレポートを省略する。
.IP -z
.\"O Tell
.\"O .B iostat
.\"O to omit output for any devices for which there was no activity
.\"O during the sample period.
.B iostat
に対して、サンプリング期間に活動がないデバイスを出力から省略させる。

.\"O .SH ENVIRONMENT
.SH 環境変数
.\"O The
.\"O .B iostat
.\"O command takes into account the following environment variables:
.B iostat
コマンドは以下の環境変数を扱う。

.IP POSIXLY_CORRECT
.\"O When this variable is set, transfer rates are shown in 512-byte blocks instead
.\"O of the default 1K blocks.
この環境変数が設定されると、転送レートが 1K ブロックではなく、
512 バイトブロックで表示される。

.IP S_COLORS
.\"O When this variable is set, display statistics in color on the terminal.
この環境変数を設定すると、端末上で統計をカラー表示する。
.\"O Possible values for this variable are
.\"O .IR never ,
.\"O .IR always
.\"O or
.\"O .IR auto
.\"O (the latter is the default).
この環境変数に指定可能な値は、
.IR never ,
.IR always ,
.I auto
である (最後がデフォルトである)。

.\"O Please note that the color (being red, yellow, or some other color) used to display a value
.\"O is not indicative of any kind of issue simply because of the color. It only indicates different
.\"O ranges of values.
値を表示する色 (赤、黄、またはその他の色) は、色によって何かの意味を示している訳ではない。
色は値の範囲を示しているだけである。

.IP S_COLORS_SGR
.\"O Specify the colors and other attributes used to display statistics on the terminal.
.\"O Its value is a colon-separated list of capabilities that defaults to
.\"O .BR H=31;1:I=32;22:M=35;1:N=34;1:Z=34;22 .
.\"O Supported capabilities are:
端末で統計を表示する際に、色とその他の属性を指定する。
この値は、コロン区切りの機能のリストで、デフォルトは
.B H=31;1:I=32;22:M=35;1:N=34;1:Z=34;22
である。
サポートされている機能は以下のとおり。

.RS
.TP
.B H=
.\"O SGR (Select Graphic Rendition) substring for percentage values greater than or equal to 75%.
割合が 75% 以上の場合の SGR (Select Graphic Rendition) 部分文字列。

.TP
.B I=
.\"O SGR substring for device names.
デバイス名を表示する SGR 部分文字列。

.TP
.B M=
.\"O SGR substring for percentage values in the range from 50% to 75%.
割合が 50% から 75% の場合の SGR 部分文字列。

.TP
.B N=
.\"O SGR substring for non-zero statistics values.
0 以外の統計値を表示する SGR 部分文字列。

.TP
.B Z=
.\"O SGR substring for zero values.
0 を表示する SGR 部分文字列。
.RE

.IP S_TIME_FORMAT
.\"O If this variable exists and its value is
.\"O .BR ISO
.\"O then the current locale will be ignored when printing the date in the report
.\"O header. The
.\"O .B iostat
.\"O command will use the ISO 8601 format (YYYY-MM-DD) instead.
この環境変数が存在し、かつ値が
.B ISO
の場合、レポートのヘッダの日付を表示する際に、
現在のロケールを無視する。
代わりに、
.B iostat
コマンドは ISO 8601 フォーマット (YYYY-MM-DD) を使う。
.\"O The timestamp displayed with option -t will also be compliant with ISO 8601
.\"O format.
-t オプションのタイムスタンプも ISO 8601 フォーマットに従う。

.\"O .SH EXAMPLES
.SH 例
.B iostat
.RS
.\"O Display a single history since boot report for all CPU and Devices.
すべての CPU とデバイスのブート時からの 1 回分の履歴を表示する。

.RE
.B iostat -d 2
.RS
.\"O Display a continuous device report at two second intervals.
デバイスのレポートを 2 秒間隔で連続して表示する。

.RE
.B iostat -d 2 6
.RS
.\"O Display six reports at two second intervals for all devices.
すべてのデバイスのレポートを 2 秒間隔で 6 回表示する。

.RE
.B iostat -x sda sdb 2 6
.RS
.\"O Display six reports of extended statistics at two second intervals for devices
.\"O sda and sdb.
デバイス sda と sdb の拡張した統計を 2 秒間隔で 6 回表示する。

.RE
.B iostat -p sda 2 6
.RS
.\"O Display six reports at two second intervals for device sda and all its
.\"O partitions (sda1, etc.)
デバイス sda と、そのすべてのパーティション (sda1 など) のレポートを
2 秒間隔で 6 回表示する。
.\"O .SH BUGS
.SH バグ
.\"O .I /proc
.\"O filesystem must be mounted for
.\"O .B iostat
.\"O to work.
.B iostat
コマンドが動作するためには、
.I /proc
ファイルシステムがマウントされていなければならない。

.\"O Kernels older than 2.6.x are no longer supported.
2.6.x より古いカーネルは、もはやサポートしていない。
.\"O .SH FILES
.SH ファイル
.I /proc/stat
.\"O contains system statistics.
システム統計を保持する。

.I /proc/uptime
.\"O contains system uptime.
システム uptime を保持する。

.I /proc/diskstats
.\"O contains disks statistics.
ディスク統計を保持する。

.I /sys
.\"O contains statistics for block devices.
ブロックデバイス統計を保持する。

.I /proc/self/mountstats
.\"O contains statistics for network filesystems.
ネットワークファイルシステム統計を保持する。

.I /dev/disk
.\"O contains persistent device names.
永続デバイス名を保持する。
.\"O .SH AUTHOR
.SH 著者
Sebastien Godard (sysstat <at> orange.fr)
.\"O .SH SEE ALSO
.SH 関連項目
.BR sar (1),
.BR pidstat (1),
.BR mpstat (1),
.BR vmstat (8),
.BR tapestat (1),
.BR nfsiostat (1),
.BR cifsiostat (1)

.I https://github.com/sysstat/sysstat

.I http://pagesperso-orange.fr/sebastien.godard/
