.\"
.\" Japanese Version Copyright (c) 2019 Yuichi SATO
.\"         all rights reserved.
.\" Translated Sat Jul  6 23:30:03 JST 2019
.\"         by Yuichi SATO <ysato444@ybb.ne.jp>
.\"
.TH MPSTAT 1 "JULY 2018" Linux "Linux User's Manual" -*- nroff -*-
.\"O .SH NAME
.SH 名前
.\"O mpstat \- Report processors related statistics.
mpstat \- プロセッサ関連の統計をレポートする。
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mpstat [ -A ] [ --dec={ 0 | 1 | 2 } ] [ -n ] [ -u ] [ -V ] [ -I {
.I keyword
.B [,...] | ALL } ] [ -N {
.I node_list
.B | ALL } ] [ -o JSON ] [ -P {
.I cpu_list
.B | ALL } ] [
.I interval
.B [
.I count
.B ] ]
.\"O .SH DESCRIPTION
.SH 説明
.\"O The
.\"O .B mpstat
.\"O command writes to standard output activities for each available processor,
.\"O processor 0 being the first one.
.B mpstat
コマンドは利用可能なプロセッサの活性度を標準出力に書き出す。
プロセッサ 0 が最初である。
.\"O Global average activities among all processors are also reported.
すべてのプロセッサの平均の活性度もレポートされる。
.\"O The
.\"O .B mpstat
.\"O command can be used both on SMP and UP machines, but in the latter, only global
.\"O average activities will be printed. If no activity has been selected, then the
.\"O default report is the CPU utilization report.
.B mpstat
コマンドは SMP とそれ以上のマシンで利用可能で、後者の場合、
平均の活性度のみが表示される。
活性度が選択されていない場合、デフォルトは CPU 利用統計が表示される。

.\"O The
.\"O .I interval
.\"O parameter specifies the amount of time in seconds between each report.
.I interval
パラメータは各レポート間の秒数を指定する。
.\"O A value of 0 (or no parameters at all) indicates that processors statistics are
.\"O to be reported for the time since system startup (boot).
値が 0 の場合 (またはパラメータが指定されない場合)、
システムのスタートアップ (ブート) からのプロセッサ統計を表す。
.\"O The
.\"O .I count
.\"O parameter can be specified in conjunction with the
.\"O .I interval
.\"O parameter if this one is not set to zero. The value of
.\"O .I count
.\"O determines the number of reports generated at
.\"O .I interval
.\"O seconds apart. If the
.\"O .I interval
.\"O parameter is specified without the
.\"O .I count
.\"O parameter, the
.\"O .B mpstat
.\"O command generates reports continuously.
.I count
パラメータは
.I interval
パラメータが 0 に指定されていない場合、一緒に設定できる。
.I count
の値で、
.I interval
秒間隔で何回レポートを作成するかを決める。
.I count
パラメータなしで、
.I interval
パラメータを指定すると、
.B mpstat
は連続してレポートを生成する。

.\"O .SH OPTIONS
.SH オプション
.IP -A
.\"O This option is equivalent to specifying
.\"O .BR "-n -u -I ALL -N ALL -P ALL"
このオプションは
.B "-n -u -I ALL -N ALL -P ALL"
を指定するのと同じである。
.IP "--dec={ 0 | 1 | 2 }"
.\"O Specify the number of decimal places to use (0 to 2, default value is 2).
使用する小数点の位置を指定する (0 から 2 で、デフォルトは 2 である)。
.IP "-I { keyword [,...] | ALL }"
.\"O Report interrupts statistics.
割り込みの統計をレポートする。

.\"O Possible keywords are
.\"O .BR CPU ,
.\"O .BR SCPU ,
.\"O and
.\"O .BR SUM .
指定可能なキーワードは、
.BR CPU ,
.BR SCPU ,
.B SUM
である。

.\"O With the
.\"O .B CPU
.\"O keyword, the number of each individual interrupt received per
.\"O second by the CPU or CPUs is displayed. Interrupts are those listed
.\"O in /proc/interrupts file.
.B CPU
キーワードを指定すると、1 秒あたりの各 CPU (群) の割り込みを表示する。
割り込みは /proc/interrupts ファイルにリストされている。

.\"O With the
.\"O .B SCPU
.\"O keyword, the number of each individual software interrupt received per
.\"O second by the CPU or CPUs is displayed. This option works only
.\"O with kernels 2.6.31 and later. Software interrupts are those listed
.\"O in /proc/softirqs file.
.B SCPU
キーワードを指定すると、1 秒あたりの各 CPU (群) のソフトウェア割り込みを表示する。
このオプションは、カーネル 2.6.31 以降でのみ動作する。
ソフトウェア割り込みは /proc/softirqs ファイルにリストされている。

.\"O With the
.\"O .B SUM
.\"O keyword, the
.\"O .B mpstat
.\"O command reports the total number of interrupts per processor.
.B SUM
キーワードを指定すると、プロセッサごとの割り込みの合計をレポートする。
.\"O The following values are displayed:
以下の値が表示される。

.B CPU
.RS
.RS
.\"O Processor number. The keyword
.\"O .I all
.\"O indicates that statistics are calculated as averages among all
.\"O processors.
プロセッサ番号。
キーワード
.I all
は全てのプロセッサの平均が統計として計算される。
.RE

.B intr/s
.RS
.\"O Show the total number of interrupts received per second by
.\"O the CPU or CPUs.
1 秒あたりの CPU (群) ごとの割り込みの合計。
.RE

.\"O The
.\"O .B ALL
.\"O keyword is equivalent to specifying all the keywords above and
.\"O therefore all the interrupts statistics are displayed.
.B ALL
キーワードは、上記のすべてのキーワードを指定したのと同じであり、
すべての割り込みの統計が表示される。
.RE
.RE
.IP "-N { node_list | ALL }"
.\"O Indicate the NUMA nodes for which statistics are to be reported.
統計をレポートする NUMA ノードを指定する。
.\"O .I node_list
.\"O is a list of comma-separated values or range of values (e.g.,
.\"O .BR 0,2,4-7,12- ).
.I node_list
はカンマ区切りの値または、値の範囲である (例
.BR 0,2,4-7,12- )。
.\"O Note that node
.\"O .B all
.\"O is the global average among all nodes. The
.\"O .B ALL
.\"O keyword indicates that statistics are to be reported for all nodes.
ノード
.B all
は、すべてのノードの平均である点に注意すること。
.B ALL
キーワードを指定すると、すべてのノードの統計をレポートする。
.IP -n
.\"O Report summary CPU statistics based on NUMA node placement. The following
.\"O values are displayed:
NUMA ノードの位置に基づいて CPU 統計のサマリをレポートする。
以下の値が表示される。

.B NODE
.RS
.RS
.\"O Node number. The keyword
.\"O .I all
.\"O indicates that statistics are calculated as averages among all nodes.
ノード番号。
.I all
キーワードを指定すると、すべてのノードの平均を統計としてレポートする。
.RE

.\"O All the other fields are the same as those displayed with option -u
.\"O (see below).
その他のフィールドは、オプション -u (下記を参照) と同じである。
.RE
.IP "-o JSON"
.\"O Display the statistics in JSON (Javascript Object Notation) format.
統計を JSON (Javascript Object Notation) 形式で表示する。
.\"O JSON output field order is undefined, and new fields may be added
.\"O in the future.
JSON 出力のフィールド順は定義されておらず、
将来新しいフィールドが追加されるかもしれない。
.IP "-P { cpu_list | ALL }"
.\"O Indicate the processors for which statistics are to be reported.
統計をレポートするプロセッサを指定する。
.\"O .I cpu_list
.\"O is a list of comma-separated values or range of values (e.g.,
.\"O .BR 0,2,4-7,12- ).
.I cpu_list
はカンマ区切りの値または、値の範囲である (例
.BR 0,2,4-7,12- )。
.\"O Note that processor 0 is the first processor, and processor
.\"O .B all
.\"O is the global average among all processors.
プロセッサ 0 が最初のプロセッサで、プロセッサ
.B all
はすべてのプロセッサの平均である点に注意すること。
.\"O The
.\"O .B ALL
.\"O keyword indicates that statistics are to be reported for all processors.
.B ALL
キーワードを指定すると、すべてのノードの統計をレポートする。
.\"O Offline processors are not displayed.
オフラインのプロセッサは表示されない。
.IP -u
.\"O Report CPU utilization. The following values are displayed:
CPU 利用状況がレポートされる。以下の値が表示される。

.B CPU
.RS
.RS
.\"O Processor number. The keyword
.\"O .I all
.\"O indicates that statistics are calculated as averages among all
.\"O processors.
プロセッサ番号。
キーワード
.I all
はすべてのプロセッサの平均の統計を表す。
.RE

.B %usr
.RS
.\"O Show the percentage of CPU utilization that occurred while
.\"O executing at the user level (application).
ユーザレベル (アプリケーション) で実行された CPU 利用の割合。
.RE

.B %nice
.RS
.\"O Show the percentage of CPU utilization that occurred while
.\"O executing at the user level with nice priority.
nice 優先度を付けてユーザレベルで実行された CPU 利用の割合。
.RE

.B %sys
.RS
.\"O Show the percentage of CPU utilization that occurred while
.\"O executing at the system level (kernel). Note that this does not
.\"O include time spent servicing hardware and software interrupts.
システムレベル (カーネル) で実行された CPU 利用の割合。
ハードウェア割り込みとソフトウェア割り込みへのサービスに
使った時間を含まない点に注意すること。
.RE

.B %iowait
.RS
.\"O Show the percentage of time that the CPU or CPUs were idle during which
.\"O the system had an outstanding disk I/O request.
システムに目立ったディスク I/O リクエストがあり、
CPU (群) がアイドル状態であった時間の割合。
.RE

.B %irq
.RS
.\"O Show the percentage of time spent by the CPU or CPUs to service hardware
.\"O interrupts.
CPU (群) がハードウェア割り込みへのサービスに使った時間の割合。
.RE

.B %soft
.RS
.\"O Show the percentage of time spent by the CPU or CPUs to service software
.\"O interrupts.
CPU (群) がソフトウェア割り込みへのサービスに使った時間の割合。
.RE

.B %steal
.RS
.\"O Show the percentage of time spent in involuntary wait by the virtual CPU
.\"O or CPUs while the hypervisor was servicing another virtual processor.
ハイパーバイザーが他の仮想プロセッサに
サービスを行っているために、
仮想 CPU (群) が不本意に待たされている時間の割合。
.RE

.B %guest
.RS
.\"O Show the percentage of time spent by the CPU or CPUs to run a virtual
.\"O processor.
CPU (群) が仮想プロセッサを実行するのに使った時間の割合。
.RE

.B %gnice
.RS
.\"O Show the percentage of time spent by the CPU or CPUs to run a niced
.\"O guest.
CPU (群) が nice されたゲストを実行するのに使った時間の割合。
.RE

.B %idle
.RS
.\"O Show the percentage of time that the CPU or CPUs were idle and the system
.\"O did not have an outstanding disk I/O request.
CPU (群) がアイドル状態でシステムに目立った
ディスク I/O リクエストがなかった時間の割合。
.RE
.RE
.IP -V
.\"O Print version number then exit.
バージョン番号を表示して、終了する。

.\"O .SH ENVIRONMENT
.SH 環境変数
.\"O The
.\"O .B mpstat
.\"O command takes into account the following environment variable:
.B mpstat
コマンドは下記の環境変数を利用する。

.IP S_COLORS
.\"O When this variable is set, display statistics in color on the terminal.
この環境変数を設定すると、端末上で統計をカラー表示する。
.\"O Possible values for this variable are
.\"O .IR never ,
.\"O .IR always 
.\"O or
.\"O .IR auto
.\"O (the latter is the default).
この環境変数に指定可能な値は、
.IR never ,
.IR always ,
.I auto
である (最後がデフォルトである)。

.\"O Please note that the color (being red, yellow, or some other color) used to display a value
.\"O is not indicative of any kind of issue simply because of the color. It only indicates different
.\"O ranges of values.
値を表示する色 (赤、黄、またはその他の色) は、色によって何かの意味を示している訳ではない。
色は値の範囲を示しているだけである。

.IP S_COLORS_SGR
.\"O Specify the colors and other attributes used to display statistics on the terminal.
.\"O Its value is a colon-separated list of capabilities that defaults to
.\"O .BR H=31;1:I=32;22:M=35;1:N=34;1:Z=34;22 .
.\"O Supported capabilities are:
端末で統計を表示する際に、色とその他の属性を指定する。
この値は、コロン区切りの機能のリストで、デフォルトは
.B H=31;1:I=32;22:M=35;1:N=34;1:Z=34;22
である。
サポートされている機能は以下のとおり。

.RS
.TP
.B H=
.\"O SGR (Select Graphic Rendition) substring for percentage values greater than or equal to 75%.
割合が 75% 以上の場合の SGR (Select Graphic Rendition) 部分文字列。

.TP
.B I=
.\"O SGR substring for CPU number.
CPU 番号を表示する SGR 部分文字列。

.TP
.B M=
.\"O SGR substring for percentage values in the range from 50% to 75%.
割合が 50% から 75% の場合の SGR 部分文字列。

.TP
.B N=
.\"O SGR substring for non-zero statistics values.
0 以外の統計値を表示する SGR 部分文字列。

.TP
.B Z=
.\"O SGR substring for zero values.
0 を表示する SGR 部分文字列。
.RE

.IP S_TIME_FORMAT
.\"O If this variable exists and its value is
.\"O .BR ISO
.\"O then the current locale will be ignored when printing the date in the report header.
この環境変数が存在し、かつ値が
.B ISO
の場合、レポートのヘッダの日付を表示する際に、
現在のロケールを無視する。
.\"O The
.\"O .B mpstat
.\"O command will use the ISO 8601 format (YYYY-MM-DD) instead.
代わりに、
.B mpstat
コマンドは ISO 8601 フォーマット (YYYY-MM-DD) を使う。
.\"O The timestamp will also be compliant with ISO 8601 format.
タイムスタンプも ISO 8601 フォーマットに従う。
.\"O .SH EXAMPLES
.SH 例
.B mpstat 2 5
.RS
.\"O Display five reports of global statistics among all processors at two second intervals.
すべてのプロセッサの全体での統計を 2 秒間隔で 5 回レポートする。
.RE

.B mpstat -P ALL 2 5
.RS
.\"O Display five reports of statistics for all processors at two second intervals.
すべてのプロセッサの統計を 2 秒間隔で 5 回レポートする。

.\"O .SH BUGS
.SH バグ
.\"O .I /proc
.\"O filesystem must be mounted for the
.\"O .B mpstat
.\"O command to work.
.B mpstat
コマンドが動作するためには、
.I /proc
ファイルシステムがマウントされていなければならない。

.\"O .SH FILES
.SH ファイル
.IR /proc
.\"O contains various files with system statistics.
システム統計を含むさまざまなファイルを保持する。

.\"O .SH AUTHOR
.SH 著者
Sebastien Godard (sysstat <at> orange.fr)
.\"O .SH SEE ALSO
.SH 関連項目
.BR sar (1),
.BR pidstat (1),
.BR iostat (1),
.BR vmstat (8)

.I https://github.com/sysstat/sysstat

.I http://pagesperso-orange.fr/sebastien.godard/
