.\"
.\" Japanese Version Copyright (c) 2019 Yuichi SATO
.\"         all rights reserved.
.\" Translated Mon Jul  8 17:41:52 JST 2019
.\"         by Yuichi SATO <ysato444@ybb.ne.jp>
.\"
.TH SADF 1 "JULY 2018" Linux "Linux User's Manual" -*- nroff -*-
.\"O .SH NAME
.SH 名前
.\"O sadf \- Display data collected by sar in multiple formats.
sadf \- sar が収集したデータをいろいろなフォーマットで表示する。
.\"O .SH SYNOPSIS
.SH 書式
.B sadf [ -C ] [ -c | -d | -g | -j | -p | -r | -x ] [ -H ] [ -h ] [ -T | -t | -U ] [ -V ] [ -O
.I opts
.B [,...] ] [ -P {
.I cpu_list
.B | ALL } ] [ -s [
.I hh:mm[:ss]
.B ] ] [ -e [
.I hh:mm[:ss]
.B ] ] [ --dev=
.I dev_list
.B ] [ --fs=
.I fs_list
.B ] [ --iface=
.I iface_list
.B ] [ --
.I sar_options
.B ] [
.I interval
.B [
.I count
.B ] ] [
.I datafile
|
.I -[0-9]+
.B ]
.\"O .SH DESCRIPTION
.SH 説明
.\"O The
.\"O .B sadf
.\"O command is used for displaying the contents of data files created by the
.\"O .BR sar (1)
.\"O command. But unlike
.\"O .BR sar ,
.\"O .B sadf
.\"O can write its data in many different formats (CSV, XML, etc.)
.B sadf
コマンドは
.BR sar (1)
コマンドで生成されたデータファイルの内容を表示するのに使われる。
.B sar
とは異なり、
.B sadf
は多くのフォーマット (CSV, XML など) で書き出すことができる。
.\"O The default format is one that can
.\"O easily be handled by pattern processing commands like awk (see option -p).
デフォルトのフォーマットは、
awk などのパターン処理コマンドで扱いやすいものである
(オプション -p を参照)。
.\"O The
.\"O .B sadf
.\"O command can also be used to draw graphs for the various activities collected
.\"O by
.\"O .B sar
.\"O and display them as SVG (Scalable Vector Graphics) graphics in your web browser
.\"O (see option -g).
.B sadf
コマンドは
.B sar
で収集した様々な活性度のグラフを描くのに使える。
SVG (Scalable Vector Graphics) でグラフを描いて、
ウェブブラウザで表示できる (オプション -g を参照)。

.\"O The
.\"O .B sadf
.\"O command extracts and writes to standard output records saved in the
.\"O .I datafile
.\"O file. This file must have been created by a version of
.\"O .B sar
.\"O which is compatible with that of
.\"O .B sadf.
.B sadf
コマンドは
.I datafile
ファイルに保存されたレコードを抽出して、標準出力に書き出す。
このファイルは
.B sadf
と互換のある
.B sar
のバージョンで作成されている必要がある。
.\"O If
.\"O .I datafile
.\"O is omitted,
.\"O .B sadf
.\"O uses the standard system activity daily data file.
.I datafile
を省略すると、
.B sadf
は、標準システム活性度日次データファイル
(standard system activity daily data file) を使う。
.\"O It is also possible to enter -1, -2 etc. as an argument to
.\"O .B sadf
.\"O to display data of that days ago.
.B sadf
の引数として、-1、-2 などを指定して、
指定した日付だけ前のデータを表示できる。
.\"O For example, -1 will point at the standard system
.\"O activity file of yesterday.
例えば、-1 は昨日の標準システム活性度日次データファイルを指している。

.\"O The standard system activity daily data file is named
.\"O .I saDD
.\"O or
.\"O .IR saYYYYMMDD ,
.\"O where YYYY stands for the current year, MM for the current month and
.\"O DD for the current day.
標準システム活性度日次データファイルは、
.I saDD
または
.I saYYYYMMDD
という名前である。
ここで、YYYY は現在の年、MM は月、DD は日である。
.\"O .B sadf
.\"O will look for the most recent of
.\"O .I saDD
.\"O and
.\"O .IR saYYYYMMDD ,
.\"O and use it. By default it is located in the
.\"O .I /var/log/sa
.\"O directory. Yet it is possible to specify an alternate location for it:
.B sadf
は直近の
.I saDD
と
.I saYYYYMMDD
を探して使う。
デフォルトではこのファイルは、
.I /var/log/sa
ディレクトリにある。
しかし、別の場所を指定することも可能である。
.\"O If
.\"O .I datafile
.\"O is a directory (instead of a plain file) then it will be considered as
.\"O the directory where the standard system activity daily data file is
.\"O located.
.I datafile
が (プレーンファイルではなく) ディレクトリの場合、
標準システム活性度日次データファイルが置かれた
ディレクトリとして解釈される。

.\"O The
.\"O .I interval
.\"O and
.\"O .I count
.\"O parameters are used to tell
.\"O .B sadf
.\"O to select
.\"O .I count
.\"O records at
.\"O .I interval
.\"O seconds apart. If the
.\"O .I count
.\"O parameter is not set, then all the records saved in the data file will be
.\"O displayed.
.I interval
と
.I count
パラメータは、
.B sadf
に
.I count
回のレコードを
.I interval
秒ごとに選択するのに指定される。
.I count
パラメータが指定されない場合、
データファイルに保存された全てのレコードが表示される。

.\"O All the activity flags of
.\"O .B sar
.\"O may be entered on the command line to indicate which
.\"O activities are to be reported. Before specifying them, put a pair of
.\"O dashes (--) on the command line in order not to confuse the flags
.\"O with those of
.\"O .B sadf.
どの活性度をレポートするかについて、
すべての
.B sar
の活性度フラグがコマンドラインから指定可能である。
このフラグを指定する前に、
.B sadf
のフラグと混在させないように、2 つのダッシュ (--) を置くこと。
.\"O Not specifying any flags selects only CPU activity.
フラグを指定しない場合、CPU 活性度のみが選択される。

.\"O .SH OPTIONS
.SH オプション
.IP -C
.\"O Tell
.\"O .B sadf
.\"O to display comments present in file.
.B sadf
にファイルに存在するコメントを表示させる。
.IP -c
.\"O Convert an old system activity binary datafile (version 9.1.6 and later)
.\"O to current up-to-date format. Use the following syntax:
古いシステム活性度バイナリデータファイル (9.1.6 以前) を
現在のフォーマットに変換する。
以下の書式を使うこと。

.B sadf -c old_datafile > new_datafile

.IP -d
.\"O Print the contents of the data file in a format that can easily
.\"O be ingested by a relational database system. The output consists
.\"O of fields separated by a semicolon. Each record contains
.\"O the hostname of the host where the file was created, the interval value
.\"O (or -1 if not applicable), the timestamp in a form easily acceptable by
.\"O most databases, and additional semicolon separated data fields as specified
.\"O by
.\"O .I sar_options
.\"O command line options.
データファイルの内容をリレーショナルデータベースシステムで
取り込みやすいフォーマットで表示する。
出力はセミコロンで区切られたフィールドで構成される。
各レコードは以下から構成される。
ファイルが作成されたホストのホスト名、
時間間隔 (取得できない場合は -1)、
多くのデータベースで受け入れられやすいタイムスタンプ、
.I sar_options
コマンドラインオプションで指定されたカンマ区切りのデータフィールド。
.\"O Note that timestamp output can be controlled by options -T, -t and -U.
タイムスタンプの出力は、オプション -T, -t, -U で制御できる。
.IP --dev=dev_list
.\"O Specify the block devices for which statistics are to be displayed by
.\"O .BR sadf .
.B sadf
で統計を表示するブロックデバイスを指定する。
.\"O .IR dev_list
.\"O is a list of comma-separated device names. Useful with option -d from
.\"O .BR sar .
.IR dev_list
はカンマ区切りのデバイス名のリストである。
これは
.B sar
のオプション -d を使うのに役立つ。
.IP "-e [ hh:mm[:ss] ]"
.\"O Set the ending time of the report, given in local time. The default ending
.\"O time is 18:00:00. Hours must be given in 24-hour format.
レポートの終了時間を、ローカル時間で指定する。
デフォルトの終了時間は 18:00:00 である。
時は 24 時間制で指定しなければならない。
.IP --fs=fs_list
.\"O Specify the filesystems for which statistics are to be displayed by
.\"O .BR sadf .
.B sadf
で統計を表示するファイルシステムを指定する。
.\"O .IR fs_list
.\"O is a list of comma-separated filesystem names or mountpoints. Useful with
.\"O option -F from
.\"O .BR sar .
.I fs_list
はカンマ区切りのデバイス名のリストである。
これは
.B sar
のオプション -F を使うのに役立つ。
.IP -g
.\"O Print the contents of the data file in SVG (Scalable Vector Graphics) format.
.\"O This option enables you to display some fancy graphs in your web browser.
.\"O Use the following syntax:
データファイルの内容を SVG (Scalable Vector Graphics) 形式で表示する。
このオプションを使うと、ウェブブラウザで綺麗なグラフを表示できる。
以下の書式を使うこと。

.B sadf -g your_datafile [ --
.I sar_options
.B ] > output.svg

.\"O and open the resulting SVG file in your favorite web browser.
結果の SVG ファイルを好きなウェブブラウザで開けばよい。
.IP -H
.\"O Display only the header of the report (when applicable). If no format has
.\"O been specified, then the header data (metadata) of the data file are displayed.
(利用可能であれば) レポートのヘッダのみを表示する。
フォーマットが指定されない場合、データファイルのヘッダデータ (メタデータ) が表示される。
.IP -h
.\"O When used in conjunction with option -d, all activities
.\"O will be displayed horizontally on a single line.
オプション -d と一緒に指定すると、
すべての活性度が横一列に表示される。
.IP --iface=iface_list
.\"O Specify the network interfaces for which statistics are to be displayed by
.\"O .BR sadf .
.B sadf
で統計を表示するネットワークインタフェースを指定する。
.\"O .IR iface_list
.\"O is a list of comma-separated interface names. Useful with options -n DEV and
.\"O -n EDEV from
.\"O .BR sar .
.I iface_list
はカンマ区切りのデバイス名のリストである。
これは
.B sar
のオプション -n DEV と -n EDEV を使うのに役立つ。
.IP -j
.\"O Print the contents of the data file in JSON (JavaScript Object Notation)
.\"O format. Timestamps can be controlled by options -T and -t.
データファイルの内容を JSON (JavaScript Object Notation) で表示する。
タイムスタンプはオプション -T と -t で制御できる。
.IP "-O opts [,...]"
.\"O Use the specified options to control the output of
.\"O .BR sadf .
指定したオプションで、
.B sadf
の出力を制御する。
.\"O The following options are used to control SVG output displayed by
.\"O .BR "sadf -g":
以下のオプションは
.B "sadf -g"
で表示される SVG 出力を制御するために使われる。

.B autoscale
.RS
.RS
.\"O Draw all the graphs of a given view as large as possible based on current
.\"O view's scale. To do this, a factor (10, 100, 1000...) is used to
.\"O enlarge the graph drawing.
現在のビューのスケールに基づいて、可能な限り大きなビューでグラフを描く。
そのため、倍率 (10, 100, 1000...) がグラフを拡大するために使われる。
.\"O This option may be interesting when several graphs are drawn on the same
.\"O view, some with only very small values, and others with high ones,
.\"O the latter making the former hardly visible.
このオプションは複数のグラフを同じビューで描く際に重要である。
小さい値のグラフと、大きな値のグラフがある場合、
後者に合わせると前者がとても分かりづらくなる。
.RE

.BR height= value
.RS
.\"O Set SVG canvas height to
.\"O .IR value .
SVG キャンバスの高さを
.I value
にする。
.RE

.B oneday
.RS
.\"O Display graphs data over a period of 24 hours. Note that hours are still
.\"O printed in UTC by default: You should use option -T to print them in local
.\"O time and get a time window starting from midnight.
グラフデータを 24 時間の期間で表示する。
時刻はデフォルトでは UTC で表示される点に注意すること。
時刻をローカル時間で表示し、時間の始まりを午前 0 時にするためには、
オプション -T を使うこと。
.RE

.B packed
.RS
.\"O Group all views from the same activity (and for the same device) on the same row.
同じ行に同じ活性度 (と同じデバイス) を描くように、すべてのビューをグループ化する。
.RE

.B showidle
.RS
.\"O Also display %idle state in graphs for CPU statistics.
CPU 統計のグラフに %idle 状態も表示する。
.RE

.B showinfo
.RS
.\"O Display additional information (such as the date and the host name) on each view.
各ビューに付加情報 (日付とホスト名) を表示する。
.RE

.B showtoc
.RS
.\"O Add a table of contents at the beginning of the SVG output, consisting of links
.\"O pointing at the first graph of each activity.
SVG 出力の先頭に目次を追加する。
目次は各活性度の最初のグラフを指す。
.RE

.B skipempty
.RS
.\"O Do not display views where all graphs have only zero values.
0 値しかないすべてのグラフを表示しない。
.RE

.\"O The following option is used to control raw output displayed by
.\"O .BR "sadf -r":
以下のオプションは、
.B "sadf -r"
による生 (raw) データの出力を制御する。

.B debug
.RS
.\"O Display additional information, mainly useful for debugging purpose.
主にデバッグ目的で役立つ、付加情報を表示する。
.RE
.RE
.IP "-P { cpu_list | ALL }"
.\"O Tell
.\"O .B sadf
.\"O that processor dependent statistics are to be reported only for the
.\"O specified processor or processors.
特定のプロセッサ (群) を指定することで、
.B sadf
にプロセッサ依存の統計をレポートさせる。
.\"O .I cpu_list
.\"O is a list of comma-separated values or range of values (e.g.,
.\"O .BR 0,2,4-7,12- ).
.I cpu_list
はカンマ区切りの値または、値の範囲である (例
.BR 0,2,4-7,12- )。
.\"O Note that processor 0 is the first processor, and processor
.\"O .B all
.\"O is the global average among all processors.
プロセッサ 0 が最初のプロセッサで、プロセッサ
.B all
はすべてのプロセッサの平均である点に注意すること。
.\"O Specifying the
.\"O .B ALL
.\"O keyword reports statistics for each individual processor, and globally for
.\"O all processors.
.B ALL
キーワードを指定すると、すべてのノードの統計をレポートする。
.IP -p
.\"O Print the contents of the data file in a format that can
.\"O easily be handled by pattern processing commands like awk.
awk などのパターン処理コマンドで扱いやすいフォーマットで、
データファイルの内容を表示する。
.\"O The output consists of fields separated by a tab. Each record contains the
.\"O hostname of the host where the file was created, the interval value
.\"O (or -1 if not applicable), the timestamp,
.\"O the device name (or - if not applicable),
.\"O the field name and its value.
出力はタブ区切りのフィールドで構成される。
各レコードには、以下が含まれる。
ファイルが作成されたホストのホスト名、時間間隔 (利用できない場合は -1)、
タイムスタンプ、デバイス名 (利用できない場合は -1)、
フィールド名と値。
.\"O Note that timestamp output can be controlled by options -T, -t and -U.
タイムスタンプの出力は、オプション -T, -t, -U で制御できる。
.IP -r
.\"O Print the raw contents of the data file. With this format, the values for
.\"O all the counters are displayed as read from the kernel, which means e.g., that
.\"O no average values are calculated over the elapsed time interval.
データファイルの生の内容を表示する。
このフォーマットでは、すべてのカウンターはカーネルから
読み込んだままの値が表示される。
例えば、経過時間に対する平均値は計算されないことを意味する。
.IP "-s [ hh:mm[:ss] ]"
.\"O Set the starting time of the data (given in local time), causing the
.\"O .B sadf
.\"O command to extract records time-tagged at, or following, the time
.\"O specified. The default starting time is 08:00:00.
データの開始時刻を (ローカル時刻で) 設定する。
.B sadf
は指定された時刻以降のレコードの抽出する。
デフォルトの開始時刻は、08:00:00 である。
.\"O Hours must be given in 24-hour format.
時は 24 時間制で指定しなければならない。
.IP -T
.\"O Display timestamp in local time instead of UTC (Coordinated Universal Time).
タイムスタンプを UTC (Coordinated Universal Time) ではなく
ローカル時間で表示する。
.IP -t
.\"O Display timestamp in the original local time of the data file creator
.\"O instead of UTC (Coordinated Universal Time).
タイムスタンプを UTC (Coordinated Universal Time) ではなく
ファイル作成者の元のローカル時間で表示する。
.IP -U
.\"O Display timestamp (UTC - Coordinated Universal Time) in seconds from
.\"O the epoch.
タイムスタンプ (UTC - Coordinated Universal Time) を
紀元 (epoch) からの秒数で表示する。
.IP -V
.\"O Print version number then exit.
バージョン番号を表示して、終了する。
.IP -x
.\"O Print the contents of the data file in XML format.
データファイルの内容を XML フォーマットで表示する。
.\"O Timestamps can be controlled by options -T and -t.
タイムスタンプはオプション -T と -t で制御できる。
.\"O The corresponding
.\"O DTD (Document Type Definition) and XML Schema are included in the sysstat
.\"O source package. They are also available at
対応する DTD (Document Type Definition) と
XML スキーマは、sysstat ソースコードパッケージに含まれる。
これは以下から入手できる。
.I http://pagesperso-orange.fr/sebastien.godard/download.html

.\"O .SH ENVIRONMENT
.SH 環境変数
.\"O The
.\"O .B sadf
.\"O command takes into account the following environment variable:
.B sadf
コマンドは下記の環境変数を利用する。

.IP S_TIME_DEF_TIME
.\"O If this variable exists and its value is
.\"O .BR UTC
.\"O then
.\"O .B sadf
.\"O will use UTC time instead of local time to determine the current daily data
.\"O file located in the
.\"O .IR /var/log/sa
.\"O directory.
この環境変数が存在し、その値が
.B UTC
の場合、
.B sadf
は
.I /var/log/sa
ディレクトリにある現在の日次データファイルの時間として、
ローカル時間ではなく UTC 時間を使う。
.\"O .SH EXAMPLES
.SH 例
.B sadf -d /var/log/sa/sa21 -- -r -n DEV
.RS
.\"O Extract memory and network statistics from system activity
.\"O file 'sa21', and display them in a format that can be ingested by a
.\"O database.
メモリとネットワークの統計をシステム活性度ファイル 'sa21' から取得し、
データベースに取り込みやすいフォーマットで表示する。
.RE

.B sadf -p -P 1
.RS
.\"O Extract CPU statistics for processor 1 (the second processor) from current
.\"O daily data file, and display them in a format that can easily be handled
.\"O by a pattern processing command.
プロセッサ 1 (2 番目のプロセッサ) の CPU 統計を
現在の日次データファイルから取得し、
パターン処理コマンドで扱いやすいフォーマットで表示する。
.RE

.\"O .SH BUGS
.SH バグ
.\"O SVG output (as created by option -g) is fully compliant with SVG 1.1 standard.
.\"O Graphics have been successfully displayed in various web browsers, including
.\"O Firefox, Chrome and Opera. Yet SVG rendering is broken on Microsoft browsers
.\"O (tested on Internet Explorer 11 and Edge 13.1): So please don't use them.
(オプション -g で作成される) SVG 出力は SVG 1.1 標準と完全互換である。
画像は Firefox, Chorme, Opera など様々なブラウザで表示に成功する。
しかし、SVG のレンダリングは Microsoft のブラウザ
(Internet Explorer 11 と Edge 13.1 でテストした) ではうまくいかないので、
Microsoft のブラウザは使わないでほしい。

.\"O .SH FILES
.SH ファイル
.I /var/log/sa/saDD
.br
.I /var/log/sa/saYYYYMMDD
.RS
.\"O The standard system activity daily data files and their default location.
.\"O YYYY stands for the current year, MM for the current month and DD for the
.\"O current day.
標準システム活性度日次データファイルとデフォルトの場所。
ここで、YYYY は現在の年、MM は月、DD は日である。

.RE
.\"O .SH AUTHOR
.SH 著者
Sebastien Godard (sysstat <at> orange.fr)
.\"O .SH SEE ALSO
.SH 関連項目
.BR sar (1),
.BR sadc (8),
.BR sa1 (8),
.BR sa2 (8),
.BR sysstat (5)

.I https://github.com/sysstat/sysstat

.I http://pagesperso-orange.fr/sebastien.godard/
