.\" Man page for apropos
.\"
.\" Copyright (C), 1994, 1995, Graeme W. Wilford. (Wilf.)
.\"
.\" You may distribute under the terms of the GNU General Public
.\" License as specified in the file COPYING that comes with the
.\" man-db distribution.
.\"
.\" Sat Oct 29 13:09:31 GMT 1994  Wilf. (G.Wilford@ee.surrey.ac.uk)
.\"
.\" Japanese Version Copyright (c) 1998 NAKANO Takeo all rights reserved.
.\" Translated Fri 25 Sep 1998 by NAKANO Takeo <nakano@apm.seikei.ac.jp>
.\" Modified Sun 6 Dec 1998 by NAKANO Takeo <nakano@apm.seikei.ac.jp>
.\" Update & Modified Tue May 12 00:34:54 JST 2020
.\"        by Yuichi SATO <ysato444@ybb.ne.jp>
.\"
.\"WORD:        hierarchy       階層
.\"WORD:        description     要約(文)
.\"
.pc
.TH APROPOS 1 "2019-10-23" "2.9.0" "Manual pager utils"
.\"O .SH NAME
.SH 名前
.\"O apropos \- search the manual page names and descriptions
apropos \- マニュアルページの名前と要約文を検索する
.\"O .SH SYNOPSIS
.SH 書式
.B apropos
.RB [\| \-dalv?V  \|]
.RB [\| \-e \||\| \-w \||\| \-r\c
\|]
.RB [\| \-s
.IR list \|]
.RB [\| \-m
.IR system \|[\|,.\|.\|.\|]\|]
.RB [\| \-M
.IR path \|]
.RB [\| \-L
.IR locale \|]
.RB [\| \-C
.IR file \|]
.I keyword
\&.\|.\|.
.\"O .SH DESCRIPTION
.SH 説明
.\"O Each manual page has a short description available within it.
.\"O .B apropos
.\"O searches the descriptions for instances of
.\"O .IR keyword .
それぞれのマニュアルページには、内容を説明する要約文が含まれている。
.B apropos
は、この要約文を対象にして
.I keyword
を検索する。

.\"O .I keyword
.\"O is usually a regular expression, as if
.\"O .RB ( \-r )
.\"O was used, or
.\"O may contain wildcards
.\"O .RB ( \-w ),
.\"O or match the exact keyword
.\"O .RB ( \-e ).
.I keyword
は通常は
.RB ( \-r )
が指定された時のように正規表現として扱われるが、
.RB ( \-w )
を指定してワイルドカードを含めたり、
.RB ( \-e )
を指定してキーワードに厳密に一致させたりもできる。
.\"O Using these options, it may be necessary to quote the
.\"O .I keyword
.\"O or escape (\e) the special characters to stop the shell from interpreting
.\"O them.
これらのオプションを用いるときには、シェルによる解釈を防ぐために、
.I keyword
を引用符で囲むか、特殊文字をエスケープする (\e) 必要があるかもしれない。

.\"O The standard matching rules allow matches to be made against the page name
.\"O and word boundaries in the description.
標準的なマッチングパターンを指定すれば、
要約文中の単語の境界やページの名前もマッチの対象となる。

.\"O The database searched by
.\"O .B apropos
.\"O is updated by the
.\"O .B mandb
.\"O program.
.B apropos
によって検索されるデータベースは、
.B mandb
プログラムによって更新される。
.\"O Depending on your installation, this may be run by a periodic cron job, or
.\"O may need to be run manually after new manual pages have been installed.
インストール方法によるが、
.B mandb
が定期的な cron ジョブで実行されているかもしれないし、
新しいマニュアルページをインストールしたときに
.B mandb
を手動で実行する必要があるかもしれない。
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-d ", " \-\-debug
.\"O Print debugging information.
デバッグ情報を表示する。
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-verbose
.\"O Print verbose warning messages.
詳細な警告メッセージを表示する。
.TP
.BR \-r ", " \-\-regex
.\"O Interpret each keyword as a regular expression.
キーワードをそれぞれ正規表現として扱う。
.\"O This is the default behaviour.
これがデフォルトの動作である。
.\"O Each keyword will be matched against the page names and the descriptions
.\"O independently.
ページの名前と要約文とが、それぞれ独立にキーワードマッチの対象に
なる。
.\"O It can match any part of either.
キーワードは各々のあらゆる部分にマッチする。
.\"O The match is not limited to word boundaries.
マッチは単語の境界に影響されない。
.TP
.BR \-w ", " \-\-wildcard
.\"O Interpret each keyword as a pattern containing shell style wildcards.
それぞれのキーワードを、シェル形式のワイルドカードを含んだパターン
として扱う。
.\"O Each keyword will be matched against the page names and the descriptions
.\"O independently.
ページの名前と要約文とが、それぞれ独立にキーワードマッチの対象に
なる。
.\"O If
.\"O .B \-\-exact
.\"O is also used,
.\"O a match will only be found if an expanded keyword matches an entire
.\"O description or page name.
.B \-\-exact
も指定された場合、展開されたキーワードが要約文またはページ名の
全体に一致した場合にのみ、一致したと判断される。
.\"O Otherwise the keyword is also allowed to match on word boundaries in the
.\"O description.
指定されない場合、キーワードは要約文の単語境界に対しても一致処理が
行われる。
.TP
.BR \-e ", " \-\-exact
.\"O Each keyword will be exactly matched against the page names and the
.\"O descriptions.
各キーワードはページ名と要約文に対して厳密に一致処理が行われる。
.TP
.BR \-a ", " \-\-and
.\"O Only display items that match all the supplied keywords.
指定したキーワードすべてにマッチしたページのみを表示する。
.\"O The default is to display items that match any keyword.
デフォルトでは、いずれかのキーワードにマッチしたページを表示する。
.TP
.BR \-l ", " \-\-long
.\"O Do not trim output to the terminal width.
出力を端末幅で切り詰めない。
.\"O Normally, output will be truncated to the terminal width to avoid ugly
.\"O results from poorly-written
.\"O .B NAME
.\"O sections.
通常は、適切に書かれていない
.B 名前
セクションの見にくさを避けるため、端末幅で切り詰める。
.TP
\fB\-s\fR \fIlist\/\fR, \
\fB\-\-sections=\fIlist\/\fR, \
\fB\-\-section=\fIlist\fR
.\"O Search only the given manual sections.
指定したマニュアルセクションのみを検索する。
.\"O .I list
.\"O is a colon- or comma-separated list of sections.
.I list
はコロンまたはコンマ区切りのセクションのリストである。
.\"O If an entry in
.\"O .I list
.\"O is a simple section, for example "3", then the displayed list of
.\"O descriptions will include pages in sections "3", "3perl", "3x", and so on;
.I list
のエントリが単純なセクション、例えば "3" である場合、
表示される要約文のリストには、"3", "3perl", "3x" などの
セクションのページが含まれる。
.\"O while if an entry in
.\"O .I list
.\"O has an extension, for example "3perl", then the list will only include
.\"O pages in that exact part of the manual section.
一方で
.I list
のエントリに拡張部分がある場合、例えば "3perl" の場合、
表示される要約文のリストには、マニュアルセクションに厳密にマッチ
したページのみが含まれる。
.TP
\fB\-m\fR \fIsystem\fR\|[\|,.\|.\|.\|]\|, \
\fB\-\-systems=\fIsystem\fR\|[\|,.\|.\|.\|]
.\"O If this system has access to other operating system's manual page
.\"O descriptions, they can be searched using this option.
現在のシステムから、他のオペレーティングシステムについての
マニュアルにアクセスできる場合には、このオプションをつけると
それらのマニュアルが検索される。
.\"O To search NewOS's manual page descriptions, use the option
.\"O .B \-m
.\"O .BR NewOS .
NewOS のマニュアルページを検索する場合には、オプション
.B \-m
.B NewOS
を使うこと。

.\"O The
.\"O .I system
.\"O specified can be a combination of comma-delimited operating system names.
.I system
には複数のオペレーティングシステム名をコンマで区切った形式で
指定できる。
.\"O To include a search of the native operating system's
.\"O .B whatis
.\"O descriptions, include the system name
.\"O .B man
.\"O in the argument string.
ネイティブのオペレーティングシステムの
.B whatis
要約文を検索の対象に含めるためには、システム名
.B man
を引き数文字列に加える。
.\"O This option will override the
.\"O .RB $ SYSTEM
.\"O environment variable.
このオプションは
.RB $ SYSTEM
環境変数を上書きする。
.TP
.BI \-M\  path \fR,\ \fB\-\-manpath= path
.\"O Specify an alternate set of colon-delimited manual page hierarchies to
.\"O search.
検索対象にするマニュアルページの階層 (hierarchy) を変えたい場合、
それらをコロンで区切った形式で指定する。
.\"O By default,
.\"O .B apropos
.\"O uses the
.\"O .RB $ MANPATH
.\"O environment variable, unless it is empty or unset, in which case it will
.\"O determine an appropriate manpath based on your
.\"O .RB $ PATH
.\"O environment variable.
デフォルトでは、
.B apropos
は環境変数
.RB $ MANPATH
を用いる。
これが空だったり設定されていなかった場合には、
.RB $ PATH
環境変数に基づいて、適切な manpath を決めようと試みる。
.\"O This option overrides the contents of
.\"O .RB $ MANPATH .
このオプションは
.RB $ MANPATH
の内容を上書きする。
.TP
.BI \-L\  locale \fR,\ \fB\-\-locale= locale
.\"O .B apropos
.\"O will normally determine your current locale by a call to the C function
.\"O .BR setlocale (3)
.\"O which interrogates various environment variables, possibly including
.\"O .RB $ LC_MESSAGES
.\"O and
.\"O .RB $ LANG .
.B apropos
は通常、カレント・ロケールを C 関数
.BR setlocale (3)
を呼ぶことによって決定しようとする。
この関数は
.RB $ LC_MESSAGES
や
.RB $ LANG
などを含む様々な環境変数を調べる。
.\"O To temporarily override the determined value, use this option to supply a
.\"O .I locale
.\"O string directly to
.\"O .BR apropos .
この値を一時的に上書きするには、このオプションを使って
.B apropos
に直接
.I locale
文字列を渡せば良い。
.\"O Note that it will not take effect until the search for pages actually
.\"O begins.
このオプションが効力を持つのは、実際のページの検索が始まってから
であることに注意すること。
.\"O Output such as the help message will always be displayed in the initially
.\"O determined locale.
ヘルプメッセージなどの出力は、起動前に定まっていたロケールで
出力される。
.TP
.BI \-C\  file \fR,\ \fB\-\-config\-file= file
.\"O Use this user configuration file rather than the default of
.\"O .IR ~/.manpath .
デフォルトの
.I ~/.manpath
ではなく、ユーザー設定ファイルを使用する。
.TP
.BR \-? ", " \-\-help
.\"O Print a help message and exit.
ヘルプメッセージを表示して、終了する。
.TP
.B \-\-usage
.\"O Print a short usage message and exit.
簡単な使用法のメッセージを表示して、終了する。
.TP
.BR \-V ", " \-\-version
.\"O Display version information.
バージョン情報を表示する。
.\"O .SH "EXIT STATUS"
.SH 返り値
.TP
.B 0
.\"O Successful program execution.
プログラムの実行に成功した。
.TP
.B 1
.\"O Usage, syntax or configuration file error.
使用法、文法、設定ファイルのいずれかにエラーがある。
.TP
.B 2
.\"O Operational error.
実行時エラー。
.TP
.B 16
.\"O Nothing was found that matched the criteria specified.
指定した検索条件にマッチするものが見つからなかった。
.\"O .SH ENVIRONMENT
.SH 環境変数
.TP
.B SYSTEM
.\"O If
.\"O .RB $ SYSTEM
.\"O is set, it will have the same effect as if it had been specified as the
.\"O argument to the
.\"O .B \-m
.\"O option.
.RB $ SYSTEM
環境変数が設定されている場合には、その内容が
.B \-m
オプションの引き数として指定された場合と同じ効力を持つ。
.TP
.B MANPATH
.\"O If
.\"O .RB $ MANPATH
.\"O is set, its value is interpreted as the colon-delimited manual page
.\"O hierarchy search path to use.
.RB $ MANPATH
が設定されている場合には、その内容は検索対象とするマニュアルの
階層をコロンで区切ったリストとみなされる。
.TP
.B MANWIDTH
.\"O If
.\"O .RB $ MANWIDTH
.\"O is set, its value is used as the terminal width (see the
.\"O .B \-\-long
.\"O option).
.RB $ MANWIDTH
が設定されると、端末幅として使われる
.RB ( \-\-long
オプションを参照)。
.\"O If it is not set, the terminal width will be calculated using the value of
.\"O .RB $ COLUMNS ,
.\"O and
.\"O .BR ioctl (2)
.\"O if available, or falling back to 80 characters if all else fails.
この環境変数が設定されない場合、端末幅は、利用可能であれば、
.RB $ COLUMNS
の値と
.BR ioctl (2)
を使って計算され、利用可能でない場合は、80 文字にされる。
.TP
.B POSIXLY_CORRECT
.\"O If
.\"O .RB $ POSIXLY_CORRECT
.\"O is set, even to a null value, the default
.\"O .B apropos
.\"O search will be as an extended regex
.\"O .RB ( \-r ).
.RB $ POSIXLY_CORRECT
が設定されていると (内容が空であっても)、デフォルトの
.B apropos
の検索は拡張正規表現形式
.RB ( \-r )
で行われる。
.\"O Nowadays, this is the default behaviour anyway.
現在では、これがデフォルトの動作である。
.\"O .SH FILES
.SH ファイル
.TP
.I /usr/share/man/index.(bt\^|\^db\^|\^dir\^|\^pag)
.\"O A traditional global
.\"O .I index
.\"O database cache.
従来形式のグローバルな
.I index
データベースキャッシュ。
.TP
.I /var/cache/man/index.(bt\^|\^db\^|\^dir\^|\^pag)
.\"O An FHS
.\"O compliant global
.\"O .I index
.\"O database cache.
FHS 互換ののグローバルな
.I index
データベースキャッシュ。
.TP
.I /usr/share/man/\|.\|.\|.\|/whatis
.\"O A traditional
.\"O .B whatis
.\"O text database.
従来形式の
.B whatis
テキストデータベース。
.\"O .SH "SEE ALSO"
.SH 関連項目
.BR man (1),
.BR whatis (1),
.BR mandb (8)
.\"O .SH AUTHOR
.SH 著者
.nf
Wilf.\& (G.Wilford@ee.surrey.ac.uk).
Fabrizio Polacco (fpolacco@debian.org).
Colin Watson (cjwatson@debian.org).
.fi
