.\" Man page for lexgrog
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001 Colin Watson <cjwatson@debian.org>
.\"
.\" You may distribute under the terms of the GNU General Public
.\" License as specified in the file COPYING that comes with the
.\" man-db distribution.
.\"
.\"
.\" Japanese Version Copyright (c) 2020 Yuichi SATO all rights reserved.
.\" Translated Sun Dec 27 22:36:27 JST 2020
.\"         by Yuichi SATO <ysato444@ybb.ne.jp>
.\"
.\"WORD:        description     要約(文)
.\"
.pc
.TH LEXGROG 1 "2019-10-23" "2.9.0" "Manual pager utils"
.\"O .SH NAME
.SH 名前
.\"O lexgrog \- parse header information in man pages
lexgrog \- man ページのヘッダ情報を解析する
.\"O .SH SYNOPSIS
.SH 書式
.B lexgrog
.RB [\| \-m \||\| -c \|]
.RB [\| \-dfw?V \|]
.RB [\| \-E
.IR encoding \|]
.I file
\&.\|.\|.
.\"O .SH DESCRIPTION
.SH 説明
.\"O .B lexgrog
.\"O is an implementation of the traditional \(lqgroff guess\(rq utility in
.\"O .BR lex .
.B lexgrog
は昔の \(lqgroff guess\(rq ユーティリティを
.B lex
で実装したものである。
.\"O It reads the list of files on its command line as either man page source
.\"O files or preformatted \(lqcat\(rq pages, and displays their name and
.\"O description as used by
.\"O .B apropos
.\"O and
.\"O .BR whatis ,
.\"O the list of preprocessing filters required by the man page before it is
.\"O passed to
.\"O .B nroff
.\"O or
.\"O .BR troff ,
.\"O or both.
このプログラムは、コマンドラインから man ページソースファイルまたは
整形済みの \(lqcat\(rq ページのファイルのリストを読み込む。
そして、
.B apropos
と
.B whatis
で使われる名前と要約文を表示するか、
.B nroff
または
.BR troff
もしくはその両方に渡される前に
man ページに必要とされる前処理フィルタのリストを表示する。
.PP
.\"O If its input is badly formatted,
.\"O .B lexgrog
.\"O will print \(lqparse failed\(rq; this may be useful for external
.\"O programs that need to check man pages for correctness.
入力のフォーマットが不正な場合、
.B lexgrog
は \(lqparse failed\(rq と表示する。
これは、他のプログラムが man ページの正しさをチェックする必要がある場合に役立つ。
.\"O If one of
.\"O .BR lexgrog 's
.\"O input files is \(lq\-\(rq, it will read from standard input; if any input
.\"O file is compressed, a decompressed version will be read automatically.
.B lexgrog
の入力ファイルの 1 つが \(lq\-\(rq の場合、標準入力を読み込む。
入力ファイルが圧縮されている場合、展開されたものが自動的に読み込まれる。
.\"O .SH OPTIONS
.SH オプション
.TP
.BR \-d ", " \-\-debug
.\"O Print debugging information.
デバッグ情報を表示する。
.TP
.BR \-m ", " \-\-man
.\"O Parse input as man page source files.
.\"O This is the default if neither
.\"O .B \-\-man
.\"O nor
.\"O .B \-\-cat
.\"O is given.
入力を man ページソースファイルとして解析する。
これは、
.B \-\-man
も
.B \-\-cat
も指定されない場合のデフォルトである。
.TP
.BR \-c ", " \-\-cat
.\"O Parse input as preformatted man pages (\(lqcat pages\(rq).
.\"O .B \-\-man
.\"O and
.\"O .B \-\-cat
.\"O may not be given simultaneously.
入力を整形済みの man ページ (\(lqcat ページ\(rq) として解析する。
.B \-\-man
と
.B \-\-cat
は同時に指定できない。
.TP
.BR \-w ", " \-\-whatis
.\"O Display the name and description from the man page's header, as used by
.\"O .B apropos
.\"O and
.\"O .BR whatis .
man ページのヘッダから名前と要約文を表示する。
これは、
.B apropos
と
.B whatis
で使われる。
.\"O This is the default if neither
.\"O .B \-\-whatis
.\"O nor
.\"O .B \-\-filters
.\"O is given.
これは
.B \-\-whatis
も
.B \-\-filters
も指定されない場合のデフォルトである。
.TP
.BR \-f ", " \-\-filters
.\"O Display the list of filters needed to preprocess the man page before
.\"O formatting with
.\"O .B nroff
.\"O or
.\"O .BR troff .
.B nroff
または
.B troff
で整形する前に、man ページを前処理するのに必要なフィルタのリストを表示する。
.TP
\fB\-E\fP \fIencoding\fP, \fB\-\-encoding\fP \fIencoding\fP
.\"O Override the guessed character set for the page to
.\"O .IR encoding .
ページについて推測された文字セットを、
.I encoding
で上書きする。
.TP
.BR \-? ", " \-\-help
.\"O Print a help message and exit.
ヘルプメッセージを表示して、終了する。
.TP
.BR \-\-usage
.\"O Print a short usage message and exit.
短い使用法のメッセージを表示して、終了する。
.TP
.BR \-V ", " \-\-version
.\"O Display version information.
バージョン情報を表示する。
.\"O .SH "EXIT STATUS"
.SH 返り値
.TP
.B 0
.\"O Successful program execution.
プログラムの実行に成功した。
.TP
.B 1
.\"O Usage error.
使用法のエラー。
.TP
.B 2
.\"O .B lexgrog
.\"O failed to parse one or more of its input files.
.B lexgrog
が 1 つ以上の入力ファイルの解析に失敗した。
.\"O .SH EXAMPLES
.SH 例
.nf
  $ lexgrog man.1
  man.1: "man \- an interface to the system reference manuals"
  $ lexgrog \-fw man.1
  man.1 (t): "man \- an interface to the system reference manuals"
  $ lexgrog \-c whatis.cat1
  whatis.cat1: "whatis \- display manual page descriptions"
  $ lexgrog broken.1
  broken.1: parse failed
.fi
.\"O .SH WHATIS PARSING
.SH WHATIS の解析
.\"O .B mandb
.\"O (which uses the same code as
.\"O .BR lexgrog )
.\"O parses the
.\"O .B NAME
.\"O section at the top of each manual page looking for names and descriptions
.\"O of the features documented in each.
.RB ( lexgrog
と同じコードを使っている)
.B mandb
は、各マニュアルページにドキュメント化された特徴の
名前と要約文を見つけるために、先頭にある
.B NAME
セクションを解析する。
.\"O While the parser is quite tolerant, as it has to cope with a number of
.\"O different forms that have historically been used, it may sometimes fail to
.\"O extract the required information.
歴史的に使われてきたいろいろな形式に対応しているため、
パーサーはとても堅牢ではあるが、
ときどき必要な情報の抽出に失敗すること場合もある。
.PP
.\"O When using the traditional
.\"O .I man
.\"O macro set, a correct
.\"O .B NAME
.\"O section looks something like this:
伝統的な
.I man
マクロセットを使う場合、正しい
.B NAME
セクションは以下のようである:
.PP
.RS
.ft CW
.nf
\&.SH NAME
foo \e\- program to do something
.fi
.ft P
.RE
.PP
.\"O Some manual pagers require the \(oq\e\-\(cq to be exactly as shown;
マニュアルページャーによっては、見た目通りに表示するためには、\(oq\e\-\(cq が必要になる。
.\"O .B mandb
.\"O is more tolerant, but for compatibility with other systems it is
.\"O nevertheless a good idea to retain the backslash.
.B mandb
はより堅牢であるが、他のシステムとの互換性を保つためには、
バックスラッシュを使うのは良い考えである。
.PP
.\"O On the left-hand side, there may be several names, separated by commas.
(ハイフンの) 左側には、複数個の名前をカンマで区切って置くことが出来る。
.\"O Names containing whitespace will be ignored to avoid pathological behaviour
.\"O on certain ill-formed
.\"O .B NAME
.\"O sections.
不正な形式の
.B NAME
セクションに対して、異常な動作を避けるため、空白を含む名前は無視される。
.\"O The text on the right-hand side is free-form, and may be spread over
.\"O multiple lines.
(ハイフンの) 右側のテキストは、自由形式であり、複数行に渡って書くことが出来る。
.\"O If several features with different descriptions are being documented in the
.\"O same manual page, the following form is therefore used:
複数の特徴についての異なる要約文を、同じマニュアルページに
ドキュメント化する場合、以下の形式が使用される:
.PP
.RS
.ft CW
.nf
\&.SH NAME
foo, bar \e\- programs to do something
\&.br
baz \e\- program to do nothing
.fi
.ft P
.RE
.PP
.\"O (A macro which starts a new paragraph, like \f(CW.PP\fP, may be used instead
.\"O of the break macro \f(CW.br\fP.)
(\f(CW.PP\fP のような新しい段落を開始するマクロが、
改行 (break) マクロ \f(CW.br\fP の代わりに使える場合もある。)
.PP
.\"O When using the BSD-derived
.\"O .I mdoc
.\"O macro set, a correct
.\"O .B NAME
.\"O section looks something like this:
BSD 由来の
.I mdoc
マクロセットを使う場合、正しい
.B NAME
セクションは、以下のようになる:
.PP
.RS
.ft CW
.nf
\&.Sh NAME
\&.Nm foo
\&.Nd program to do something
.fi
.ft P
.RE

.\"O There are several common reasons why whatis parsing fails.
whatis の解析が失敗するいくつかの一般的な理由がある。
.\"O Sometimes authors of manual pages replace \(oq.SH NAME\(cq with
.\"O \(oq.SH MYPROGRAM\(cq, and then
.\"O .B mandb
.\"O cannot find the section from which to extract the information it needs.
マニュアルページの著者が \(oq.SH NAME\(cq を
\(oq.SH MYPROGRAM\(cq に置き換えてしまい、
.B mandb
が必要な情報を抽出するセクションを見つけられない場合がある。
.\"O Sometimes authors include a NAME section, but place free-form text there
.\"O rather than \(oqname \e\- description\(cq.
また、著者が NAME セクションを書いているが、
\(oqname \e\- description\(cq ではない、自由形式で書いている場合もある。
.\"O However, any syntax resembling the above should be accepted.
しかし、上記のような書式も受け付けるべきである。
.\"O .SH "SEE ALSO"
.SH 関連項目
.IR apropos (1),
.IR man (1),
.IR whatis (1),
.IR mandb (8)
.\"O .SH NOTES
.SH 注意
.\"O .B lexgrog
.\"O attempts to parse files containing .so requests, but will only be able
.\"O to do so correctly if the files are properly installed in a manual page
.\"O hierarchy.
.B lexgrog
は .so リクエストを含むファイルを解析しようとするが、
ファイルがマニュアルページ階層に正しくインストールされている場合にのみ、
正しく解析することが出来る。
.\"O .SH AUTHOR
.SH 作者
.\"O The code used by
.\"O .B lexgrog
.\"O to scan man pages was written by:
man ページをスキャンする
.B lexgrog
のコードは、以下の作者によって書かれた:
.PP
.nf
Wilf.\& (G.Wilford@ee.surrey.ac.uk).
Fabrizio Polacco (fpolacco@debian.org).
Colin Watson (cjwatson@debian.org).
.fi
.PP
.\"O Colin Watson wrote the current incarnation of the command-line
.\"O front-end, as well as this man page.
Colin Watson が、現在のコマンドラインフロントエンドの実装と、
この man ページを書いた。
