'\" t
.\" ** The above line should force tbl to be a preprocessor **
.\" Man page for man
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 1994, 1995, Graeme W. Wilford. (Wilf.)
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2019 Colin Watson.
.\"
.\" You may distribute under the terms of the GNU General Public
.\" License as specified in the file COPYING that comes with the
.\" man-db distribution.
.\"
.\" Sat Oct 29 13:09:31 GMT 1994  Wilf. (G.Wilford@ee.surrey.ac.uk)
.\"
.\" Japanese Version Copyright (c) 1998 NAKANO Takeo all rights reserved.
.\" Translated Fri 25 Sep 1998 by NAKANO Takeo <nakano@apm.seikei.ac.jp>
.\" Modified Sun 6 Dec 1998 by NAKANO Takeo <nakano@apm.seikei.ac.jp>
.\" Updated & Modified Tue May  5 22:21:04 JST 2020
.\"         by Yuichi SATO <ysato444@ybb.ne.jp>
.\"
.\"WORD:        hierarchy       階層
.\"WORD:        (short) description     要約(文)
.\"
.pc
.TH MAN 1 "2019-10-23" "2.9.0" "Manual pager utils"
.\"O .SH NAME
.SH 名前
.\"O man \- an interface to the system reference manuals
man \- システムリファレンスマニュアルのインターフェース
.\"O .SH SYNOPSIS
.SH 書式
.\" The general command line
.B man
.RI [\| "man options" \|]
.RI [\|[\| section \|]
.IR page \ \|.\|.\|.\|]\ \.\|.\|.\&
.\" The apropos command line
.br
.B man
.B \-k
.RI [\| "apropos options" \|]
.I regexp
\&.\|.\|.\&
.\" The --global-apropos command line
.br
.B man
.B \-K
.RI [\| "man options" \|]
.RI [\| section \|]
.IR term \ .\|.\|.\&
.\" The whatis command line
.br
.B man
.B \-f
.RI [\| whatis
.IR options \|]
.I page
\&.\|.\|.\&
.\" The --local command line
.br
.B man
.B \-l
.RI [\| "man options" \|]
.I file
\&.\|.\|.\&
.\" The --where/--where-cat command line
.br
.B man
.BR \-w \||\| \-W
.RI [\| "man options" \|]
.I page
\&.\|.\|.\&
.\"O .SH DESCRIPTION
.SH 説明
.\"O .B man
.\"O is the system's manual pager.
.B man
はシステムのマニュアルページャーである。
.\"O Each
.\"O .I page
.\"O argument given to
.\"O .B man
.\"O is normally the name of a program, utility or function.
.B man
に与えられる引き数
.I page
は、通常はプログラムやユーティリティ、関数などの名前である。
.\"O The
.\"O .I manual page
.\"O associated with each of these arguments is then found and displayed.
これらの引き数それぞれに対応する
.I マニュアルページ
が検索・表示される。
.\"O A
.\"O .IR section ,
.\"O if provided, will direct
.\"O .B man
.\"O to look only in that
.\"O .I section
.\"O of the manual.
.I section
が指定されると、
.B man
はマニュアルを検索する対象をそのセクションに限定する。
.\"O The default action is to search in all of the available
.\"O .IR sections
.\"O following a pre-defined order (see
.\"O .BR DEFAULTS ),
.\"O and to show only the first
.\"O .I page
.\"O found, even if
.\"O .I page
.\"O exists in several
.\"O .IR sections .
デフォルトの動作では、すべてのセクションを既定の順序
.RB ( デフォルト
のセクションを参照) で検索し、
最初に見つかった
.I page
だけを表示する。複数のセクションに同じ名前の
.I page
が存在する場合でも、表示されるのは最初の一つだけとなる。

.\"O The table below shows the
.\"O .I section
.\"O numbers of the manual followed by the types of pages they contain.
以下の表にマニュアルの
.I section
番号を示す。それぞれの
.I section
に、どのようなページが含まれるかもあわせて示す。

.TS
tab (@);
l lx.
1@T{
.\"O Executable programs or shell commands
実行プログラムまたはシェルのコマンド
T}
2@T{
.\"O System calls (functions provided by the kernel)
システムコール (カーネルが提供する関数)
T}
3@T{
.\"O Library calls (functions within program libraries)
ライブラリコール (プログラムライブラリに含まれる関数)
T}
4@T{
.\"O Special files (usually found in \fI/dev\/\fR)
特殊なファイル (通常 \fI/dev\fR に置かれているもの)
T}
5@T{
.\"O File formats and conventions, e.g.\& \fI/etc/passwd\fR
ファイルのフォーマットと約束事。例えば \fI/etc/passwd\fR など
T}
6@T{
.\"O Games
ゲーム
T}
7@T{
.\"O Miscellaneous (including macro packages and conventions),
.\"O e.g.\& \fBman\fR(7), \fBgroff\fR(7)
その他 (マクロのパッケージとその約束事)。
例えば \fBman\fR(7), \fBgroff\fR(7) など
T}
8@T{
.\"O System administration commands (usually only for root)
システム管理用のコマンド (通常は root 用)
T}
9@T{
.\"O Kernel routines [\|Non standard\|]
カーネルルーチン [\|非標準\|]
T}
.TE

.\"O A manual
.\"O .I page
.\"O consists of several sections.
それぞれのマニュアルページ
.I page
は、いくつかのセクションからなる。

.\"O Conventional section names include
一般的なセクション名としては、以下がある。
.\"O .BR NAME ,
.\"O .BR SYNOPSIS ,
.\"O .BR CONFIGURATION ,
.\"O .BR DESCRIPTION ,
.\"O .BR OPTIONS ,
.\"O .BR EXIT\ STATUS ,
.\"O .BR RETURN\ VALUE ,
.\"O .BR ERRORS ,
.\"O .BR ENVIRONMENT ,
.\"O .BR FILES ,
.\"O .BR VERSIONS ,
.\"O .BR CONFORMING\ TO ,
.\"O .BR NOTES ,
.\"O .BR BUGS ,
.\"O .BR EXAMPLE ,
.\"O .BR AUTHORS ,
.\"O and
.\"O .BR SEE\ ALSO .
.BR "名前 (NAME)" ,
.BR "書式 (SYNOPSIS)" ,
.BR "設定 (CONFIGURATION)" ,
.BR "説明 (DESCRIPTION)" ,
.BR "オプション (OPTIONS)" ,
.BR "終了ステータス (EXIT\ STATUS)" ,
.BR "返り値 (RETURN\ VALUE)" ,
.BR "エラー (ERRORS)" ,
.BR "環境変数 (ENVIRONMENT)" ,
.BR "ファイル (FILES)" ,
.BR "バージョン (VERSIONS)" ,
.BR "準拠 (CONFORMING\ TO)" ,
.BR "注意 (NOTES)" ,
.BR "バグ (BUGS)" ,
.BR "例 (EXAMPLE)" ,
.BR "著者 (AUTHORS)" ,
.BR "関連項目 (SEE\ ALSO)" .

.\"O The following conventions apply to the
.\"O .B SYNOPSIS
.\"O section and can be used as a guide in other sections.
.B 書式
のセクションには以下のような形式が用いられている。
他のセクションでも同様のルールを用いると良い。

.TS
tab (@);
l lx.
.\"O \fBbold text\fR@T{
.\"O type exactly as shown.
\fBボールド体 (bold)\fR@T{
そのままタイプする。
T}
.\"O \fIitalic text\fR@T{
.\"O replace with appropriate argument.
\fIイタリック体 (italic)\fR@T{
適切な引き数に置き代える。
T}
[\|\fB\-abc\fR\|]@T{
.\"O any or all arguments within [ ] are optional.
[ ] 内部の引き数はすべて省略できる。
T}
\fB\-a\|\fR|\|\fB\-b\fR@T{
.\"O options delimited by | cannot be used together.
| で区切られたオプションは同時には指定できない。
T}
\fIargument\fR .\|.\|.@T{
.\"O \fIargument\fR is repeatable.
\fIargument\fR は繰り返し指定できる。
T}
[\|\fIexpression\fR\|]\fR .\|.\|.@T{
.\"O \fRentire \fIexpression\fR\ within [ ] is repeatable.
[ ] 内部の \fIexpression\fR\ 全体を繰り返し指定できる。
T}
.TE

.\"O Exact rendering may vary depending on the output device.
.\"O For instance, man will usually not be able to render italics when running in
.\"O a terminal, and will typically use underlined or coloured text instead.
厳密なレンダリングは出力デバイスによって変わる。
例えば、man を端末で実行した場合、通常はイタリック体をレンダリングできないため、
下線または色付きのテキストを代わりに使用する。

.\"O The command or function illustration is a pattern that should match all
.\"O possible invocations.
コマンドや関数は、これらのパターンの組みあわせによって、起動可能な書式の
すべてを網羅しているべきである。
.\"O In some cases it is advisable to illustrate several exclusive invocations
.\"O as is shown in the
.\"O .B SYNOPSIS
.\"O section of this manual page.
複数ある起動方法のうちの排他的なものは、
場合によっては別々に示した方が良いかもしれない (このページの
.B 書式
セクションではそのようにしている)。
.\"O .SH EXAMPLES
.SH 例
.TP \w'man\ 'u
.BI man \ ls
.\"O Display the manual page for the
.\"O .I item
.\"O (program)
.\"O .IR ls .
.I アイテム
(プログラム)
.I ls
に関するマニュアルページを表示する。
.TP
\fBman\fR \fIman\fR.\fI7\fR
.\"O Display the manual page for macro package
.\"O .I man
.\"O from section
.\"O .IR 7 .
セクション
.I 7
からマクロパッケージ
.I man
のマニュアルページを表示する。
.\"O (This is an alternative spelling of
.\"O "\fBman\fR \fI7 man\fR".)
(これは "\fBman\fR \fI7 man\fR" の別の表現である。)
.TP
\fBman '\fIman\fR(\fI7\fR)'
.\"O Display the manual page for macro package
.\"O .I man
.\"O from section
.\"O .IR 7 .
セクション
.I 7
からマクロパッケージ
.I man
のマニュアルページを表示する。
.\"O (This is another alternative spelling of
.\"O "\fBman\fR \fI7 man\fR".
.\"O It may be more convenient when copying and pasting cross-references to
.\"O manual pages.
.\"O Note that the parentheses must normally be quoted to protect them from the
.\"O shell.)
(これは "\fBman\fR \fI7 man\fR" のまた別の表現である。
マニュアルページの相互参照をコピー・ペーストする際に、便利である。
シェルでの解釈を防ぐため、括弧は通常はクォートしなければならない点に
注意すること。)
.TP
.BI man\ \-a \ intro
.\"O Display, in succession, all of the available
.\"O .I intro
.\"O manual pages contained within the manual.
.\"O It is possible to quit between successive displays or skip any of them.
マニュアルにある
.I intro
のページをすべて、順番に表示する。
次のページに移るときに、以降の表示を中止したり、見たくないものを
スキップすることもできる。
.TP
\fBman \-t \fIbash \fR|\fI lpr \-Pps
.\"O Format the manual page for
.\"O .I bash
.\"O into the default
.\"O .B troff
.\"O or
.\"O .B groff
.\"O format and pipe it to the printer named
.\"O .IR ps .
.I bash
のマニュアルページを、
.B troff
または
.B nroff
のデフォルト出力フォーマットに整形して、
.I ps
という名前のプリンターにパイプしている。
.\"O The default output for
.\"O .B groff
.\"O is usually PostScript.
.B groff
のデフォルト出力は通常 PostScript である。
.\"O .B man \-\-help
.\"O should advise as to which processor is bound to the
.\"O .B \-t
.\"O option.
.B man \-\-help
とすれば、
.B \-t
オプションによって起動される整形コマンドに関する情報が得られる。
.TP
.BI "man \-l \-T" "dvi ./foo.1x.gz" " > " ./foo.1x.dvi
.\"O This command will decompress and format the nroff source manual page
.\"O .I ./foo.1x.gz
.\"O into a
.\"O .B device independent (dvi)
.\"O file.
このコマンドは nroff ソースのマニュアルページ
.I ./foo.1x.gz
を展開して、
.B デバイス非依存 (dvi)
なファイルにフォーマットする。
.\"O The redirection is necessary as the
.\"O .B \-T
.\"O flag causes output to be directed to
.\"O .B stdout
.\"O with no pager.
.B \-T
オプションによって、フォーマットの結果は
.B stdout
にページャーなしで出力されているので、この場合リダイレクションが
必要である。
.\"O The output could be viewed with a program such as
.\"O .B xdvi
.\"O or further processed into PostScript using a program such as
.\"O .BR dvips .
この出力結果は
.B xdvi
のようなプログラムで見ることができる。また
.B dvips
のようなプログラムを用いれば、さらに PostScript に変換することもできる。
.TP
.BI man\ \-k \ printf
.\"O Search the short descriptions and manual page names for the keyword
.\"O .I printf
.\"O as regular expression.
キーワード
.I printf
を正規表現として、マニュアルページの要約文とページ名を検索し、
マッチした結果を表示する。
.\"O Print out any matches.
マッチしたすべてを表示する。
.\"O Equivalent to
.\"O .BI apropos \ printf .
.BI apropos \ printf
と同等である。
.TP
.BI man\ \-f \ smail
.\"O Lookup the manual pages referenced by
.\"O .I smail
.\"O and print out the short descriptions of any found.
.I smail
と言う名前のマニュアルページを探し、
見つかったものそれぞれに対して要約文を表示する。
.\"O Equivalent to
.\"O .BI whatis \ smail .
.BI whatis \ smail
と同等である。
.\"O .SH OVERVIEW
.SH 概要
.\"O Many options are available to
.\"O .B man
.\"O in order to give as much flexibility as possible to the user.
.B man
には多くのオプションが存在し、ユーザーに可能な限りの柔軟性を提供している。
.\"O Changes can be made to the search path, section order, output processor,
.\"O and other behaviours and operations detailed below.
検索パスやセクションの順番、出力プロセッサ、他の振る舞いや動作などが、
以下に詳細に述べられている。

.\"O If set, various environment variables are interrogated to determine
.\"O the operation of
.\"O .BR man .
また
.B man
の動作に影響を及ぼす環境変数も数多く存在する。
.\"O It is possible to set the "catch-all" variable
.\"O .RB $ MANOPT
.\"O to any string in command line format, with the exception that any spaces
.\"O used as part of an option's argument must be escaped (preceded by a
.\"O backslash).
「万能」な環境変数である
.RB $ MANOPT
を用いれば、コマンドラインと同じ形式の文字列を設定することもできる。
ただしオプションの引き数の一部として用いられるスペースは、
すべてエスケープする (バックスラッシュを前置する) 必要がある。
.\"O .B man
.\"O will parse
.\"O .RB $ MANOPT
.\"O prior to parsing its own command line.
.B man
は、
.RB $ MANOPT
をコマンドラインの前に解釈する。
.\"O Those options requiring an argument will be overridden by the same options
.\"O found on the command line.
引き数を必要とするオプションに関しては、同じものがコマンドラインにも
存在すれば、コマンドラインの方が優先される。
.\"O To reset all of the options set in
.\"O .RB $ MANOPT ,
.\"O .B \-D
.\"O can be specified as the initial command line option.
.RB $ MANOPT
に設定されたオプションをすべてリセットするには、コマンドラインオプション
の最初に
.B \-D
を指定すればよい。
.\"O This will allow man to "forget" about the options specified in
.\"O .RB $ MANOPT ,
.\"O although they must still have been valid.
これによって
.B man
は一時的に
.RB $MANOPT
の内容を「忘れる」が、環境変数の内容自体は有効なまま残る。

.\"O Manual pages are normally stored in
.\"O .BR nroff (1)
.\"O format under a directory such as
.\"O .IR /usr/share/man .
マニュアルページは通常は
.BR nroff (1)
形式で
.I /usr/share/man
といったディレクトリに格納される。
.\"O In some installations, there may also be preformatted
.\"O .I cat pages
.\"O to improve performance.
インストール状態によっては、性能を改善するため整形済み
.I cat
ページが存在することもある。
.\"O See
.\"O .BR manpath (5)
.\"O for details of where these files are stored.
これらのファイルがどこに格納されるかの詳細は、
.BR manpath (5)
を参照すること。

.\"O This package supports manual pages in multiple languages, controlled by your
.\"O .IR locale .
このパッケージでは、多言語のマニュアルページをサポートしており、
.I locale
で制御できる。
.\"O If your system did not set this up for you automatically, then you may need
.\"O to set
.\"O .RB $ LC_MESSAGES ,
.\"O .RB $ LANG ,
.\"O or another system-dependent environment variable to indicate your preferred
.\"O locale, usually specified in the
.\"O .B POSIX
.\"O format:
使っているシステムがロケールを自動で設定しない場合、この機能を
有効にするには、
.RB $ LC_MESSAGES ,
.RB $ LANG
のいずれかか、他のシステム依存の環境変数を、使用している言語のロケールに
設定する必要がある。
通常言語ロケールは
.B POSIX
に基づいたフォーマットで指定する:

.\"
.\" Need a \c to make sure we don't get a space where we don't want one
.\"
.RI < language >[\|\c
.B _\c
.RI < territory >\|[\|\c
.B .\c
.RI < character-set >\|[\|\c
.B ,\c
.RI < version >\|]\|]\|]

.\"O If the desired page is available in your
.\"O .IR locale ,
.\"O it will be displayed in lieu of the standard
.\"O (usually American English) page.
要求したページに対して、使用している
.I locale
のものが存在すれば、そのページが標準のページ (通常はアメリカ英語) の
代わりに表示される。

.\"O If you find that the translations supplied with this package are not
.\"O available in your native language and you would like to supply them, please
.\"O contact the maintainer who will be coordinating such activity.
このパッケージに、あなたのネイティブな言語に対応したマニュアルページが
なく、これを追加したいと思う人は、メンテナーに連絡して欲しい。
このような努力をまとめたいと思っている。

.\"O Individual manual pages are normally written and maintained by the
.\"O maintainers of the program, function, or other topic that they document, and
.\"O are not included with this package.
各マニュアルページは、通常はプログラム、関数、その他のドキュメント化した
トピックのメンテナーによって書かれて保守されており、このパッケージには
含まれていない。
.\"O If you find that a manual page is missing or inadequate, please report that
.\"O to the maintainers of the package in question.
マニュアルページが見つからなかったり、不十分であると思った場合には、
疑問を持ったパッケージのメンテナーに報告して欲しい。

.\"O For information regarding other features and extensions available with this
.\"O manual pager, please read the documents supplied with the package.
このマニュアルページャーで用いることのできる、その他の機能や拡張に
ついては、このパッケージに付属しているドキュメントを読んで欲しい。
.\"O .SH DEFAULTS
.SH デフォルト
.\"O The order of sections to search may be overridden by the environment
.\"O variable
.\"O .RB $ MANSECT
.\"O or by the
.\"O .B SECTION
.\"O directive in
.\"O .IR /etc/man_db.conf .
.\"O By default it is as follows:
セクションの検索の順番は、環境変数
.RB $ MANSECT
または
.I /etc/man_db.conf
の
.B SECTION
の指定で上書きできる。
デフォルトでは、下記の順番である:

.RS
1 1p 8 2 3 3p 3pm 4 5 6 7 9 0p n l p o 1x 2x 3x 4x 5x 6x 7x 8x
.RE

.\"O The formatted manual page is displayed using a
.\"O .IR pager .
整形されたマニュアルページは
.I pager
を使って表示される。
これは複数の方法で指定することができて、指定されない場合はデフォルトに
なる。
(詳細はオプション
.B \-P
を参照すること)。

.\"O The filters are deciphered by a number of means.
フィルタは複数の手段で読み込まれる。
.\"O Firstly, the command line option
.\"O .B \-p
.\"O or the environment variable
.\"O .RB $ MANROFFSEQ
.\"O is interrogated.
最初にコマンドラインオプション
.B \-p
または環境変数
.RB $ MANROFFSEQ
を調べる。
.\"O If
.\"O .B \-p
.\"O was not used and the environment variable was not set, the initial line of
.\"O the nroff file is parsed for a preprocessor string.
.B \-p
が使用されておらず、環境変数が設定されていない場合、
nroff ファイルの最初の行を、プリプロセッサ文字列として解釈する。
.\"O To contain a valid preprocessor string, the first line must resemble
プリプロセッサ文字列として有効なものであるためには、先頭行は以下のような
ものでなければならない。

.B '\e"
.RB < string >

.\"O where
.\"O .B string
.\"O can be any combination of letters described by option
.\"O .B \-p
.\"O below.
ここで
.B string
は、以下の
.B \-p
オプションの部分で記述されている文字の任意の組み合わせである。

.\"O If none of the above methods provide any filter information, a default set
.\"O is used.
上記のいずれの手法も用いられず、フィルタの情報が与えられなかった場合は、
デフォルトのセットが用いられる。

.\"O A formatting pipeline is formed from the filters and the primary
.\"O formatter
.\"O .RB ( nroff
.\"O or
.\"O .RB [ tg ] roff
.\"O with
.\"O .BR \-t )
.\"O and executed.
整形プロセスのパイプラインは、フィルタ群と基本整形プログラム
.RB ( nroff
または
.RB [ tg ] roff
+ オプション
.B \-t)
によって構成され、これが実行される。
.\"O Alternatively, if an executable program
.\"O .I mandb_nfmt
.\"O (or
.\"O .I mandb_tfmt
.\"O with
.\"O .BR \-t )
.\"O exists in the man tree root, it is executed instead.
あるいは、実行可能なプログラム
.I mandb_nfmt
(または
.I mandb_tfmt
と
.B \-t
オプション) が man 階層ツリーのルートにある場合は、これが代わりに実行される。
.\"O It gets passed the manual source file, the preprocessor string, and
.\"O optionally the device specified with
.\"O .BR \-T " or " \-E
.\"O as arguments.
このプログラムはマニュアルのソースファイルとプリプロセッサ文字列とを
引き数に取る。省略可能であるが
.B \-T
によるデバイス指定を行うこともできる。
.\" ********************************************************************
.\"O .SH OPTIONS
.SH オプション
.\"O Non-argument options that are duplicated either on the command line, in
.\"O .RB $ MANOPT ,
.\"O or both, are not harmful.
引き数を取らないオプションは、コマンドラインでも
.RB $ MANOPT
環境変数ででも、重ねて指定してかまわない。
.\"O For options that require an argument, each duplication will override the
.\"O previous argument value.
引き数をとるオプションが重なった場合は、後から指定されたものが優先される。
.\"O .SS "General options"
.SS 一般的なオプション
.TP
.BI \-C\  file \fR,\ \fB\-\-config\-file= file
.\"O Use this user configuration file rather than the default of
.\"O .IR ~/.manpath .
デフォルトの
.I ~/.manpath
ではなく、ユーザー設定ファイルを使用する。
.TP
.BR \-d ", " \-\-debug
.\"O Print debugging information.
デバッグ情報を表示する。
.TP
.BR \-D ", " \-\-default
.\"O This option is normally issued as the very first option and resets
.\"O .B man's
.\"O behaviour to its default.
このオプションは、通常先頭に指定して、
.B man
の振る舞いをデフォルトにリセットする。
.\"O Its use is to reset those options that may have been set in
.\"O .RB $ MANOPT .
このオプションの目的は、
.RB $ MANOPT
で指定されているかもしれないオプションをリセットすることである。
.\"O Any options that follow
.\"O .B \-D
.\"O will have their usual effect.
この
.B \-D
以降に指定されたオプションは、通常通りの効果を持つ。
.TP
\fB\-\-warnings\fP[=\fIwarnings\/\fP]
.\"O Enable warnings from
.\"O .IR groff .
.I groff
からの警告を有効にする。
.\"O This may be used to perform sanity checks on the source text of manual
.\"O pages.
このオプションはマニュアルページのソースコードの整合性チェックを
行うために使用される。
.\"O .I warnings
.\"O is a comma-separated list of warning names; if it is not supplied, the
.\"O default is "mac".
.I warnings
はコンマ区切りの警告名のリストである。
指定されてない場合、デフォルトは "mac" である。
.\"O See the \(lqWarnings\(rq node in
.\"O .B info groff
.\"O for a list of available warning names.
使用可能な警告名は
.B info groff
の \(lqWarnings\(rq ノードを参照すること。
.\"O .SS "Main modes of operation"
.SS 操作のメインモード
.TP
.BR \-f ", " \-\-whatis
.\"O Equivalent to
.\"O .BR whatis .
.B whatis
と等価。
.\"O Display a short description from the manual page, if available.
可能であれば、マニュアルページの要約を表示する。
.\"O See
.\"O .BR whatis (1)
.\"O for details.
詳細は
.BR whatis (1)
を見よ。
.TP
.BR \-k ", " \-\-apropos
.\"O Equivalent to
.\"O .BR apropos .
.B apropos
と等価。
.\"O Search the short manual page descriptions for keywords and display any
.\"O matches.
マニュアルページの要約文からキーワードを検索し、
マッチしたものをすべて表示する。
.\"O See
.\"O .BR apropos (1)
.\"O for details.
詳細は
.BR apropos (1)
を見よ。
.TP
.BR \-K ", " \-\-global\-apropos
.\"O Search for text in all manual pages.
.\"O This is a brute-force search, and is likely to take some time; if you can,
.\"O you should specify a section to reduce the number of pages that need to be
.\"O searched.
.\"O Search terms may be simple strings (the default), or regular expressions if
.\"O the
.\"O .B \-\-regex
.\"O option is used.
すべてのマニュアルページのテキストを検索する。
全数検索を行うため、長い時間がかかる。
検索するページ数を減らすために、可能であればセクションを指定する
べきである。
検索する語はデフォルトでは単純な文字列である。
.B \-\-regex
オプションを指定した場合は正規表現になる。
.IP
.\"O Note that this searches the
.\"O .I sources
.\"O of the manual pages, not the rendered text, and so may include false
.\"O positives due to things like comments in source files.
検索はレンダリングされた文字列ではなく、
マニュアルページの
.I ソースファイル
に対して行われるので、ソースファイル中のコメントなどにより
誤りを含む可能性がある点に注意すること。
.\"O Searching the rendered text would be much slower.
レンダリングされた文字列を検索すると、とても遅くなるだろう。
.TP
.BR \-l ", " \-\-local\-file
.\"O Activate "local" mode.
"local" モードを有効にする。
.\"O Format and display local manual files instead of searching through the
.\"O system's manual collection.
システムのマニュアルを検索する代わりに、ローカルなマニュアル
ファイルを整形して表示する。
.\"O Each manual page argument will be interpreted as an nroff source file in the
.\"O correct format.
マニュアルページの引き数は、正しいフォーマットを持った
nroff のソースファイルであるとみなされる。
.\"O .\" Compressed nroff source files with a supported compression
.\"O .\" extension will be decompressed by man prior to being displaying via the
.\"O .\" usual filters.
.\" nroff ソースが圧縮されている場合は、圧縮を示す拡張子が
.\" .B man
.\" システムによってサポートされていれば、展開されてから処理・表示される。
.\"O No cat file is produced.
.\"O If '\-' is listed as one of the arguments, input will be taken from stdin.
cat ファイルは生成されない。
`\-' が引き数に指定された場合は、標準入力から入力が与えられると
みなされる。
.\"O When this option is not used, and man fails to find the page required,
.\"O before displaying the error message, it attempts to act as if this
.\"O option was supplied, using the name as a filename and looking for an
.\"O exact match.
このオプションが指定されず、man が要求されたページを見つけるのに失敗した場合、
エラーメッセージを表示する前に、このオプションが指定されて、
名前をファイル名として厳密にマッチングして検索するように動作する。
.TP
.BR \-w ", " \-\-where ", " \-\-path ", " \-\-location
.\"O Don't actually display the manual page, but do print the location of the
.\"O source nroff file that would be formatted.
実際にはマニュアルページを表示せず、整形・表示されることになる
ファイルの位置を表示する。
.\"O If the
.\"O .B \-a
.\"O option is also used, then print the locations of all source files that match
.\"O the search criteria.
.B \-a
オプションも指定された場合、検索条件にマッチするすべてのソース
ファイルの位置を表示する。
.TP
.BR \-W ", " \-\-where\-cat ", " \-\-location\-cat
.\"O Don't actually display the manual page, but do print the location of the
.\"O preformatted cat file that would be displayed.
実際にはマニュアルページを表示せず、表示されることになる
整形済み cat ファイルの位置を表示する。
.\"O If the
.\"O .B \-a
.\"O option is also used, then print the locations of all preformatted cat files
.\"O that match the search criteria.
.B \-a
オプションも指定された場合、検索条件にマッチするすべての整形済み
cat ファイルの位置を表示する。
.IP
.\"O If
.\"O .B \-w
.\"O and
.\"O .B \-W
.\"O are both used, then print both source file and cat file separated by a
.\"O space.
.B \-w
と
.B \-W
の両方が指定された場合、ソースファイルと cat ファイルの両方を
コンマで区切って表示する。
.\"O If
.\"O all of
.\"O .BR \-w ,
.\"O .BR \-W ,
.\"O and
.\"O .B \-a
.\"O are used, then do this for each possible match.
.BR \-w ,
.BR \-W ,
.B \-a
のすべてが指定された場合、それぞれにマッチするものが表示される。
.TP
.BR \-c ", " \-\-catman
.\"O This option is not for general use and should only be used by the
.\"O .B catman
.\"O program.
このオプションは一般的な用途のためのものではなく、
.B catman
プログラムを通してのみ用いるべきである。
.TP
.BI \-R\  encoding\fR,\ \fI \-\-recode\fR=\fIencoding
.\"O Instead of formatting the manual page in the usual way, output its source
.\"O converted to the specified
.\"O .IR encoding .
マニュアルページを通常の方法で整形する代わりに、
.I encoding
で指定したエンコーディングに変換して出力する。
.\"O If you already know the encoding of the source file, you can also use
.\"O .BR manconv (1)
.\"O directly.
ソースファイルのエンコーディングを知っている場合は、
.BR manconv (1)
を直接使用することもできる。
.\"O However, this option allows you to convert several manual pages to a single
.\"O encoding without having to explicitly state the encoding of each, provided
.\"O that they were already installed in a structure similar to a manual page
.\"O hierarchy.
しかし、このオプションにより、マニュアルページ階層と同様の構造で
インストールされた形で提供されている、複数のマニュアルページの
エンコーディングを明示的に意識することなく単一のエンコーディングに
変換して出力できる。
.IP
.\"O Consider using
.\"O .BR man-recode (1)
.\"O instead for converting multiple manual pages, since it has an interface
.\"O designed for bulk conversion and so can be much faster.
複数のマニュアルページを個別に変換するのではなく、
.BR man-recode (1)
を使うのを考慮すること。
.BR man-recode (1)
には一括変換のために設計されたインターフェースがあり、とても速い。
.\"O .SS "Finding manual pages"
.SS マニュアルページの検索方法
.TP
.BI \-L\  locale \fR,\ \fB\-\-locale= locale
.\"O .B man
.\"O will normally determine your current locale by a call to the C function
.\"O .BR setlocale (3)
.\"O which interrogates various environment variables, possibly including
.\"O .RB $ LC_MESSAGES
.\"O and
.\"O .RB $ LANG .
.B man
は通常、カレント・ロケールを C 関数
.BR setlocale (3)
を呼ぶことによって決定しようとする。この関数の動作は、例えば
.RB $ LC_MESSAGES
や
.RB $ LANG
などのような、様々な環境変数によって影響される。
.\"O To temporarily override the determined value, use this option to supply a
.\"O .I locale
.\"O string directly to
.\"O .BR man .
この値を一時的に上書きするには、このオプションを使って
.B man
に直接
.I locale
文字列を渡せば良い。
.\"O Note that it will not take effect until the search for pages actually
.\"O begins.
このオプションが効力を持つのは、実際のページの検索が始まってから
であることに注意すること。
.\"O Output such as the help message will always be displayed in the initially
.\"O determined locale.
ヘルプメッセージなどの出力は、起動前に定まっていたロケールで
出力される。
.TP
\fB\-m\fR \fIsystem\fR\|[\|,.\|.\|.\|]\|, \
\fB\-\-systems=\fIsystem\fR\|[\|,.\|.\|.\|]
.\"O If this system has access to other operating system's manual pages, they can
.\"O be accessed using this option.
現在のシステムから、他のオペレーティングシステムについての
マニュアルにアクセスできる場合には、このオプションをつけると
それらのマニュアルが検索される。
.\"O To search for a manual page from NewOS's manual page collection,
.\"O use the option
.\"O .B \-m
.\"O .BR NewOS .
NewOS のマニュアルページを検索する場合には、
.B \-m
.B NewOS
のようなオプションを指定する。

.\"O The
.\"O .I system
.\"O specified can be a combination of comma delimited operating system names.
.I system
には複数のオペレーティングシステムをコンマで区切った形式で
指定できる。
.\"O To include a search of the native operating system's manual pages,
.\"O include the system name
.\"O .B man
.\"O in the argument string.
ネイティブのオペレーティングシステムの
.B whatis
記述を検索の対象に含めるためには、システム名
.B man
を引き数文字列に加える。
.\"O This option will override the
.\"O .RB $ SYSTEM
.\"O environment variable.
このオプションは
.RB $ SYSTEM
環境変数を上書きする。
.TP
.BI \-M\  path \fR,\ \fB\-\-manpath= path
.\"O Specify an alternate manpath to use.
通常の代わりに用いる manpath を指定する。
.\"O By default,
.\"O .B man
.\"O uses
.\"O .B manpath
.\"O derived code to determine the path to search.
デフォルトでは、
.B man
は検索パスの決定に
.B manpath
由来のコードを用いている。
.\"O This option overrides the
.\"O .RB $ MANPATH
.\"O environment variable and causes option
.\"O .B \-m
.\"O to be ignored.
このオプションは、
.RB $ MANPATH
環境変数を上書きする。またこのオプションを指定すると、
.B \-m
オプションは無視される。

.\"O A path specified as a manpath must be the root of a manual page hierarchy
.\"O structured into sections as described in the man-db manual (under "The
.\"O manual page system").
manpath に指定されるパスは、マニュアルページ階層のルートの必要がある。
この階層は man-db のマニュアル (の「マニュアルページの体系」) で説明されている
セクションに構造化される。
.\"O To view manual pages outside such hierarchies, see the
.\"O .B \-l
.\"O option.
この階層構造の外にあるマニュアルページを見る場合は、
.B \-l
オプションを参照すること。
.TP
\fB\-S\fR \fIlist\/\fR, \
\fB\-s\fR \fIlist\/\fR, \
\fB\-\-sections=\fIlist\/\fR
.\"O The given
.\"O .I list
.\"O is a colon- or comma-separated list of sections, used to determine which
.\"O manual sections to search and in what order.
引き数
.I list
には、検索対象とするセクションをコロンかコンマ区切りで指定する。
検索は指定した順序でなされる。
.\"O This option overrides the
.\"O .RB $ MANSECT
.\"O environment variable.
このオプションは
.RB $ MANSECT
環境変数を上書きする。
.\"O (The
.\"O .B \-s
.\"O spelling is for compatibility with System V.)
.RB ( \-s
の綴りは、System V との互換性を表す。)
.TP
.BI \-e\  sub-extension \fR,\ \fB\-\-extension= sub-extension
.\"O Some systems incorporate large packages of manual pages, such as those that
.\"O accompany the
.\"O .B Tcl
.\"O package, into the main manual page hierarchy.
(例えば
.B Tcl
などがそうだが)
システムによっては、大きなマニュアルページのパッケージを、
メインのマニュアルページ階層にインストールするようなものがある。
.\"O To get around the problem of having two manual pages with the same name
.\"O such as
.\"O .BR exit (3),
.\"O the
.\"O .B Tcl
.\"O pages were usually all assigned to section
.\"O .BR l .
同じ名前のページ (例えば
.BR exit (3)
など) が二つ存在してしまうことを避けるために、通常
.B Tcl
のページは
.B l
というセクションに割り当てられえいた。
.\"O As this is unfortunate, it is now possible to put the pages in the correct
.\"O section, and to assign a specific "extension" to them, in this case,
.\"O .BR exit (3tcl).
これは望ましくないので、ページを正しいセクションに入れ、それらに
特定の「拡張」を追加することができるようになった。
.\"O Under normal operation,
.\"O .B man
.\"O will display
.\"O .BR exit (3)
.\"O in preference to
.\"O .BR exit (3tcl).
例えばこの場合なら
.BR exit (3tcl)
のようになる。
通常の動作では、
.B man
は
.BR exit (3)
を
.BR exit (3tcl)
より優先して表示する。
.\"O To negotiate this situation and to avoid having to know which section the
.\"O page you require resides in, it is now possible to give
.\"O .B man
.\"O a
.\"O .I sub-extension
.\"O string indicating which package the page must belong to.
この状況を調整し、目的とするページがどのセクションにあるのかを
いちいち記憶しておかなくてもすむように、
.B man
に
.I sub-extension
文字列を与えることができるようになった。
.\"O Using the above example, supplying the option
.\"O .B \-e\ tcl
.\"O to
.\"O .B man
.\"O will restrict the search to pages having an extension of
.\"O .BR *tcl .
この文字列は、ページが
所属するパッケージを指定するものである。上記の例なら、オプション
として
.B \-e\ tcl
を
.B man
に与えれば、検索対象とするページは拡張子が
.B *tcl
のものに限られるようになる。
.TP
.BR \-i ", " \-\-ignore\-case
.\"O Ignore case when searching for manual pages.
マニュアルページを検索する時に大文字と小文字の区別をしない。
.\"O This is the default.
これはデフォルトの動作である。
.TP
.BR \-I ", " \-\-match\-case
.\"O Search for manual pages case-sensitively.
マニュアルページを検索する時に大文字と小文字の区別する。
.TP
.B \-\-regex
.\"O Show all pages with any part of either their names or their descriptions
.\"O matching each
.\"O .I page
.\"O argument as a regular expression, as with
.\"O .BR apropos (1).
.BR apropos (1)
と同じように、各
.I page
引き数を正規表現として、名前または説明の一部にマッチするすべての
ページを表示する。
.\"O Since there is usually no reasonable way to pick a "best" page when
.\"O searching for a regular expression, this option implies
.\"O .BR \-a .
正規表現で検索する際に、「最適な」ページを見つける一般的に適切な
方法はないため、このオプションでは
.B \-a
が暗黙のうちに指定される。
.TP
.B \-\-wildcard
.\"O Show all pages with any part of either their names or their descriptions
.\"O matching each
.\"O .I page
.\"O argument using shell-style wildcards, as with
.\"O .BR apropos (1)
.\"O .BR \-\-wildcard .
.BR apropos (1)
.B \-\-wildcard
と同じように、各
.I page
引き数をシェル形式のワイルドカードとして、名前または説明の一部に
マッチするすべてのページを表示する。
.\"O The
.\"O .I page
.\"O argument must match the entire name or description, or match on word
.\"O boundaries in the description.
.I page
引き数は、名前または説明の全体にマッチするか、
説明の単語の区切りにマッチしなければならない。
.\"O Since there is usually no reasonable way to pick a "best" page when
.\"O searching for a wildcard, this option implies
.\"O .BR \-a .
ワイルドカードで検索する際に、「最適な」ページを見つける一般的に
適切な方法はないため、このオプションでは
.B \-a
が暗黙のうちに指定される。
.TP
.B \-\-names\-only
.\"O If the
.\"O .B \-\-regex
.\"O or
.\"O .B \-\-wildcard
.\"O option is used, match only page names, not page descriptions, as with
.\"O .BR whatis (1).
.\"O Otherwise, no effect.
.B \-\-regex
または
.B \-\-wildcard
オプションと併せて使用した場合、一致処理を要約文に対して行わず、
ページ名のみに一致処理を行う。
.BR whatis (1)
で使用した時も同様である。
その他の場合は何も効果を及ぼさない。
.TP
.BR \-a ", " \-\-all
.\"O By default,
.\"O .B man
.\"O will exit after displaying the most suitable manual page it finds.
デフォルトでは
.B man
は検索で見つかったページのうち、もっとも適切と判断したものを
一つだけ表示して終了する。
.\"O Using this option forces
.\"O .B man
.\"O to display all the manual pages with names that match the search criteria.
このオプションを用いると、
.B man
は検索でマッチしたすべてのファイルを表示する。
.TP
.BR \-u ", " \-\-update
.\"O This option causes
.\"O .B man
.\"O to update its database caches of installed manual pages.
このオプションを用いると、
.B man
はインストールされているマニュアルページのデータベースキャッシュを
更新する。
.\"O This is only needed in rare situations, and it is normally better to run
.\"O .BR mandb (8)
.\"O instead.
これが必要なのは稀な状況であり、一般的には
.BR mandb (8)
を代わりに実行する方がよい。
.TP
.B \-\-no\-subpages
.\"O By default,
.\"O .B man
.\"O will try to interpret pairs of manual page names given on the command line
.\"O as equivalent to a single manual page name containing a hyphen or an
.\"O underscore.
デフォルトでは、
.B man
は、コマンドラインで指定されたマニュアルページ名のペアを、
ハイフンまたはアンダースコアを含む 1 つのマニュアルページ名と等しいと解釈する。
.\"O This supports the common pattern of programs that implement a number of
.\"O subcommands, allowing them to provide manual pages for each that can be
.\"O accessed using similar syntax as would be used to invoke the subcommands
.\"O themselves.
これにより、複数のサブコマンドを実装しているプログラムでの一般的な
パターンをサポートし、サブコマンド自体を呼び出しに使われるのと
同様の書式で、各サブコマンドのマニュアルページにアクセス可能にして
いる。
.\"O For example:
例えば:

.nf
\&  $ man \-aw git diff
\&  /usr/share/man/man1/git\-diff.1.gz
.fi

.\"O To disable this behaviour, use the
.\"O .B \-\-no\-subpages
.\"O option.
この振る舞いを無効化するには、
.B \-\-no\-subpages
オプションを使うこと。

.nf
\&  $ man \-aw \-\-no\-subpages git diff
\&  /usr/share/man/man1/git.1.gz
\&  /usr/share/man/man3/Git.3pm.gz
\&  /usr/share/man/man1/diff.1.gz
.fi
.\"O .SS "Controlling formatted output"
.SS 整形済み出力の制御
.TP
.BI \-P\  pager \fR,\ \fB\-\-pager= pager
.\"O Specify which output pager to use.
出力に用いるページャーを指定する。
.\"O By default,
.\"O .B man
.\"O uses
.\"O .BR "less" ,
.\"O falling back to
.\"O .B cat
.\"O if
.\"O .B less
.\"O is not found or is not executable.
デフォルトでは、
.B man
は
.B less
を使い、
.B less
が見つからない、または実行不能の場合には、
.B cat
を使う。
.\"O This option overrides the
.\"O .RB $ MANPAGER
.\"O environment variable, which in turn overrides the
.\"O .RB $ PAGER
.\"O environment variable.
このオプションは、環境変数
.RB $ MANPAGER
を上書きする。
また、
.RB $ MANPAGER
は環境変数
.RB $ PAGER
を上書きする。
.\"O It is not used in conjunction with
.\"O .B \-f
.\"O or
.\"O .BR \-k .
このオプションは
.B \-f
や
.B \-k
と同時に用いることはできない。

.\"O The value may be a simple command name or a command with arguments, and may
.\"O use shell quoting (backslashes, single quotes, or double quotes).
この値は、単純なコマンド名か引き数付きのコマンドで、シェルの
エスケープ文字 (バックスラッシュ、シングルクォート、ダブルクォート)
を使用している場合がある。
.\"O It may not use pipes to connect multiple commands; if you need that, use a
.\"O wrapper script, which may take the file to display either as an argument or
.\"O on standard input.
パイプを使用して複数のコマンドをつなげることはできない。
そのような必要性がある場合、表示するファイルを、単一の引き数
または標準入力として受け取るラッパースクリプトを使用する。
.TP
.BI \-r\  prompt \fR,\ \fB\-\-prompt= prompt
.\"O If a recent version of
.\"O .B less
.\"O is used as the pager,
.\"O .B man
.\"O will attempt to set its prompt and some sensible options.
.\"O The default prompt looks like
最新版の
.B less
がページャーに用いられている場合には、
.B man
は
.B less
のプロンプトやオプションを設定しようとする。
デフォルトは以下のようなものである。

.B \ Manual page\c
.IB \ name ( sec )\c
.BI \ line \ x

.\"O where
.\"O .I name
.\"O denotes the manual page name,
.\"O .I sec
.\"O denotes the section it was found under and
.\"O .I x
.\"O the current line number.
ここで
.I name
はマニュアルページの名前、
.I sec
はセクション、
.I x
は現在の行番号である。
.\"O .\"The default options are
.\"O .\".BR \-six8 .
.\" デフォルトのオプションは
.\" .B \-six8
.\" である。
.\"O This is achieved by using the
.\"O .RB $ LESS
.\"O environment variable.
これは環境変数
.RB $ LESS
を通して設定される。
.\"O .\"The actual default will depend on your chosen
.\"O .\".BR locale .
.\" 実際のデフォルトは
.\" .B locale
.\" の選択に依存する。

.\"O Supplying
.\"O .B \-r
.\"O with a string will override this default.
.B \-r
を文字列とともに指定すると、デフォルトを上書きできる。
.\"O .\"You may need to do this if your
.\"O .\"version of
.\"O .\".B less
.\"O .\"rejects the default options or if you prefer a different prompt.
.\" 使用している
.\" .B less
.\" がデフォルトのオプションを受け付けなかったり、
.\" プロンプトを変更したい場合に、このオプションを用いる必要があるだろう。
.\"O The string may contain the text
.\"O .B $MAN_PN
.\"O which will be expanded to the name of the current manual page and its
.\"O section name surrounded by "(" and ")".
文字列に
.B $MAN_PN
というテキストを入れると、現在のマニュアル名と、セクションを
"(" と ")" で括ったものとに展開される。
.\"O The string used to produce the default could be expressed as
デフォルトの出力となるような文字列は、以下のように表現できる。

.B \e\ Manual\e\ page\e\ \e$MAN_PN\e\ ?ltline\e\ %lt?L/%L.:
.br
.B byte\e\ %bB?s/%s..?\e\ (END):?pB\e\ %pB\e\e%..
.br
.B (press h for help or q to quit)

.\"O It is broken into three lines here for the sake of readability only.
ここで二行に分割されているのは、単に可読性のためである。
.\"O For its meaning see the
.\"O .BR less (1)
.\"O manual page.
これらの意味に
関しては
.BR less (1)
のマニュアルページを見ること。
.\"O The prompt string is first evaluated by the shell.
このプロンプト文字列は、まずシェルによって解釈される。
.\"O All double quotes, back-quotes and backslashes in the prompt must be escaped
.\"O by a preceding backslash.
プロンプト中に存在するダブルクォート、バッククォート、
バックスラッシュは、すべてバックスラッシュを前置して
エスケープしなければならない。
.\"O The prompt string may end in an escaped $ which may be followed by further
.\"O options for less.
プロンプト文字列はエスケープされた $ で終わり、これ以降は less に与える追加オプションになる。
.\"O By default
.\"O .B man
.\"O sets the
.\"O .B \-ix8
.\"O options.
デフォルトでは、
.B man
は
.B \-ix8
をオプションとして指定する。

.\"O The
.\"O .RB $ MANLESS
.\"O environment variable described below may be used to set a default prompt
.\"O string if none is supplied on the command line.
上記で説明されている環境変数
.RB $ MANLESS
は、コマンドラインで何も指定されていないときに、
デフォルトのプロンプト文字列を設定するために使われる。
.TP
.BR \-7 ", " \-\-ascii
.\"O When viewing a pure
.\"O .IR ascii (7)
.\"O manual page on a 7 bit terminal or terminal emulator, some characters may
.\"O not display correctly when using the
.\"O .IR latin1 (7)
.\"O device description with
.\"O .B GNU
.\"O .BR nroff .
純粋な
.IR ascii (7)
コードで記述されたマニュアルページを 7 ビット端末 (や端末エミュレータ)
で読む場合、
.B "GNU nroff"
の
.IR latin1 (7)
デバイス表示を用いると、文字によっては正しく表示されない可能性が
ある。
.\"O This option allows pure
.\"O .I ascii
.\"O manual pages to be displayed in
.\"O .I ascii
.\"O with the
.\"O .I latin1
.\"O device.
このオプションを用いると、純粋な
.I ascii
のマニュアルページを、
.I latin1
デバイスでも
.I ascii
で表示することができるようになる。
.\"O It will not translate any
.\"O .I latin1
.\"O text.
ただしこれは
.I latin1
テキストを変換するわけではない。
.\"O The following table shows the translations performed: some parts of it may
.\"O only be displayed properly when using
.\"O .B GNU
.\"O .BR nroff 's
.\"O .IR latin1 (7)
.\"O device.
以下の表は、行われる変換の様子を示すものである。
これらのうちいくつかは、
.B GNU
.B nroff
の
.IR latin1 (7)
デバイスを使った場合にのみ正しく表示される。

.ie c \[shc] \
.  ds softhyphen \[shc]
.el \
.  ds softhyphen \(hy
.na
.TS
tab (@);
l c c c.
Description@Octal@latin1@ascii
_
T{
continuation hyphen
T}@255@\*[softhyphen]@-
T{
bullet (middle dot)
T}@267@\(bu@o
T{
acute accent
T}@264@\(aa@'
T{
multiplication sign
T}@327@\(mu@x
.TE
.ad

.\"O If the
.\"O .I latin1
.\"O column displays correctly, your terminal may be set up for
.\"O .I latin1
.\"O characters and this option is not necessary
.I latin1
カラムの表示が正しい場合は、あなたが現在使っている端末は
.I latin1
文字向けに設定されているので、このオプションは必要ない。
.\"O If the
.\"O .I latin1
.\"O and
.\"O .I ascii
.\"O columns are identical, you are reading this page using this option or
.\"O .B man
.\"O did not format this page using the
.\"O .I latin1
.\"O device description.
.I latin1
と
.I ascii
カラムが同一である場合は、あなたは現在このページをこのオプションで
見ているか、あるいは
.B man
がこのページの整形に
.I latin1
デバイスの指定を用いていないことになる。
.\"O If the
.\"O .I latin1
.\"O column is missing or corrupt, you may need to view manual pages with this
.\"O option.
.I latin1
カラムが空であるか、変な表示になっている場合は、マニュアルページを
見るためにこのオプションを指定する必要がある。

.\"O This option is ignored when using options
.\"O .BR \-t ,
.\"O .BR \-H ,
.\"O .BR \-T ,
.\"O or
.\"O .B \-Z
.\"O and may be useless for
.\"O .B nroff
.\"O other than
.\"O .BR GNU's .
このオプションは
.BR \-t ,
.BR \-H ,
.BR \-T ,
.B \-Z
オプションを用いている場合は無視される。
また
.B GNU
以外の
.B nroff
を用いている場合も、おそらく指定する意味はない。
.TP
.BI \-E\  encoding\fR,\ \fI \-\-encoding\fR=\fIencoding
.\"O Generate output for a character encoding other than the default.
デフォルト以外の文字エンコーディングで出力を生成する。
.\"O For backward compatibility,
.\"O .I encoding
.\"O may be an
.\"O .B nroff
.\"O device such as
.\"O .BR ascii ", " latin1 ", or " utf8
.\"O as well as a true character encoding such as
.\"O .BR UTF\-8 .
過去の互換性のために、
.I encoding
には、
.B UTF\-8
のような実際のエンコーディングに加えて 
.BR ascii ", " latin1 ", " utf8
のような
.B nroff
デバイス設定も使用できる。
.TP
.BR \-\-no\-hyphenation ", " \-\-nh
.\"O Normally,
.\"O .B nroff
.\"O will automatically hyphenate text at line breaks even in words that do not
.\"O contain hyphens, if it is necessary to do so to lay out words on a line
.\"O without excessive spacing.
通常、
.B nroff
は、単語内にハイフンが無かったとしても、改行部分でテキストに
自動的にハイフンを付加する。
これにより、行内の単語間に過剰なスペースが配置されることを防ぐ。
.\"O This option disables automatic hyphenation, so words will only be hyphenated
.\"O if they already contain hyphens.
このオプションは自動的なハイフン付加を無効にする。
よって、ハイフンが含まれている単語のみハイフン区切りが行われる。

.\"O If you are writing a manual page and simply want to prevent
.\"O .B nroff
.\"O from hyphenating a word at an inappropriate point, do not use this option,
.\"O but consult the
.\"O .B nroff
.\"O documentation instead; for instance, you can put "\e%" inside a word to
.\"O indicate that it may be hyphenated at that point, or put "\e%" at the start
.\"O of a word to prevent it from being hyphenated.
マニュアルページを書いていて、
.B nroff
が単語内の誤った場所にハイフンを付加するのを防止したい場合、
このオプションを使用してはいけない。
代わりに
.B nroff
の文書を参照すること。
例えば、"\e%" を単語内に含めると、その場所にハイフンを付加することが可能である
ことを示す。
また、"\e%" を単語の最初に付加すると、その単語にはハイフンは付加されない。
.TP
.BR \-\-no\-justification ", " \-\-nj
.\"O Normally,
.\"O .B nroff
.\"O will automatically justify text to both margins.
通常、
.B nroff
は自動的に左右余白に対してテキストを均等に割り付ける。
.\"O This option disables full justification, leaving justified only to the left
.\"O margin, sometimes called "ragged-right" text.
このオプションは左右余白の均等割り付けを抑止し、左側余白のみ
整列する。
これは "ragged-right" text と呼ばれる。

.\"O If you are writing a manual page and simply want to prevent
.\"O .B nroff
.\"O from justifying certain paragraphs, do not use this option, but consult the
.\"O .B nroff
.\"O documentation instead; for instance, you can use the ".na", ".nf", ".fi",
.\"O and ".ad" requests to temporarily disable adjusting and filling.
マニュアルページを書いていて、
.B nroff
がある段落に対して均等割り付けを行うのを防止したい場合、
このオプションを使用してはいけない。
代わりに
.B nroff
の文書を参照すること。
例えば  ".na", ".nf", ".fi", ".ad" を使用すると、
一時的に字間調整や字詰めを無効にするように要求できる。
.TP
.BI \-p\  string \fR,\ \fB\-\-preprocessor= string
.\"O Specify the sequence of preprocessors to run before
.\"O .B nroff
.\"O or
.\"O .BR troff / groff .
.\"O Not all installations will have a full set of preprocessors.
.B nroff
または
.BR troff / groff
の前に実行するプリプロセッサのシーケンスを指定する。
.\"O Some of the preprocessors and the letters used to designate them are:
.\"O .BR eqn " (" e ),
.\"O .BR grap " (" g ),
.\"O .BR pic " (" p ),
.\"O .BR tbl " (" t ),
.\"O .BR vgrind " (" v ),
.\"O .BR refer " (" r ).
すべてのインストール環境で、以下すべてのプリプロセッサが使える
わけではない。
プリプロセッサと、それを指定する文字のいくつかを以下に挙げる。
.BR eqn " (" e ),
.BR grap " (" g ),
.BR pic " (" p ),
.BR tbl " (" t ),
.BR vgrind " (" v ),
.BR refer " (" r ).
.\"O This option overrides the
.\"O .RB $ MANROFFSEQ
.\"O environment variable.
このオプションは
.RB $ MANROFFSEQ
環境変数を上書きする。
.\"O .B zsoelim
.\"O is always run as the very first preprocessor.
.B zsoelim
は、常に他のプリプロセッサすべてに先立って実行される。
.TP
.BR \-t ", " \-\-troff
.\"O Use
.\"O .I groff \-mandoc
.\"O to format the manual page to stdout.
マニュアルページの整形と、標準出力への表示に
.I groff \-mandoc
を用いる。
.\"O This option is not required in conjunction with
.\"O .BR \-H ,
.\"O .BR \-T ,
.\"O or
.\"O .BR \-Z .
.BR \-H ,
.BR \-T ,
.B \-Z
オプションの指定時に、このオプションを指定する必要はない。
.TP
\fB\-T\fP[\fIdevice\/\fP], \fB\-\-troff\-device\fP[=\fIdevice\/\fP]
.\"O This option is used to change
.\"O .B groff
.\"O (or possibly
.\"O .BR troff's )
.\"O output to be suitable for a device other than the default.
このオプションは
.B groff
(あるいは他の
.BR troff )
の出力を、デフォルトから用いるデバイスにあわせて変更するために
用いられる。
.\"O It implies
.\"O .BR \-t .
.B \-t
が暗黙のうちに指定される。
.\"O Examples (provided with Groff-1.17) include
.\"O .BR dvi ", " latin1 ", " ps ", " utf8 ,
.\"O .BR X75 " and " X100 .
例としては (Groff-1.17 でのもの)、
.BR dvi ", " latin1 ", " ps ", " utf8 ,
.BR X75 ", " X100
などが挙げられる。
.TP
\fB\-H\fP[\fIbrowser\/\fP], \fB\-\-html\fP[=\fIbrowser\/\fP]
.\"O This option will cause
.\"O .B groff
.\"O to produce HTML output, and will display that output in a web browser.
このオプションを指定した場合、
.B groff
は HTML 出力を生成し、その出力をウェブブラウザーで表示する。
.\"O The choice of browser is determined by the optional
.\"O .I browser
.\"O argument if one is provided, by the
.\"O .RB $ BROWSER
.\"O environment variable, or by a compile-time default if that is unset (usually
.\"O .BR lynx ).
ブラウザーはオプション引き数の
.I browser
(指定されている場合)、
.RB $ BROWSER
環境変数が使用される。
それらが設定されていない場合はコンパイル時のデフォルト (通常は
.BR lynx )
が使用される。
.\"O This option implies
.\"O .BR \-t ,
.\"O and will only work with
.\"O .B GNU
.\"O .BR troff .
.B \-t
が暗黙のうちに指定される。
そして、
.B "GNU troff"
を使用している時のみ有効である。
.TP
\fB\-X\fP[\fIdpi\/\fP], \fB\-\-gxditview\fP[=\fIdpi\/\fP]
.\"O This option displays the output of
.\"O .B groff
.\"O in a graphical window using the
.\"O .B gxditview
.\"O program.
このオプションを指定した場合、
.B gxditview
プログラムを使用して、
.B groff
の出力をグラフィカルウィンドウに表示する。
.\"O The
.\"O .I dpi
.\"O (dots per inch) may be 75, 75-12, 100, or 100-12, defaulting to 75;
.\"O the -12 variants use a 12-point base font.
(ドット/インチ) は 75, 75-12, 100, 100-12 であり、
デフォルトは  75 である。
-12 では 12 ポイントのフォントを使用する。
.\"O This option implies
.\"O .B \-T
.\"O with the X75, X75-12, X100, or X100-12 device respectively.
.I dpi
このオプションにより
.B \-T
オプションと、その引き数としてそれぞれ
X75, X75-12, X100, X100-12
デバイス設定が暗黙のうちに指定される。
.TP
.BR \-Z ", " \-\-ditroff
.\"O .B groff
.\"O will run
.\"O .B troff
.\"O and then use an appropriate post-processor to produce output suitable for
.\"O the chosen device.
.B groff
は
.B troff
を実行し、その後適切なポストプロセッサを用いて選択したデバイスに
応じた出力を生成する。
.\"O If
.\"O .I groff \-mandoc
.\"O is
.\"O .BR groff ,
.\"O this option is passed to
.\"O .B groff
.\"O and will suppress the use of a post-processor.
もし
.I groff \-mandoc
が
.B groff
であるならば、このオプションは
.B groff
に渡されて、ポストプロセッサの利用を抑制する。
.\"O It implies
.\"O .BR \-t .
.B \-t
が暗黙のうちに指定される。
.\"O .SS "Getting help"
.SS ヘルプの取得
.TP
.BR \-? ", " \-\-help
.\"O Print a help message and exit.
ヘルプメッセージを表示して、終了する。
.TP
.B \-\-usage
.\"O Print a short usage message and exit.
簡単な使用法のメッセージを表示して、終了する。
.TP
.BR \-V ", " \-\-version
.\"O Display version information.
バージョン情報を表示する。
.\"O .SH "EXIT STATUS"
.SH 返り値
.TP
.B 0
.\"O Successful program execution.
プログラムの実行に成功した。
.TP
.B 1
.\"O Usage, syntax or configuration file error.
使用法、文法、設定ファイルのいずれかにエラーがある。
.TP
.B 2
.\"O Operational error.
実行時エラー。
.TP
.B 3
.\"O A child process returned a non-zero exit status.
子プロセスの返り値が非ゼロだった。
.TP
.B 16
.\"O At least one of the pages/files/keywords didn't exist or wasn't matched.
少なくとも、ページ、ファイル、キーワードのどれか一つが
存在しないか、マッチしなかった。
.\"O .SH ENVIRONMENT
.SH 環境変数
.\".TP \w'MANROFFSEQ\ \ 'u
.TP
.B MANPATH
.\"O If
.\"O .RB $ MANPATH
.\"O is set, its value is used as the path to search for manual pages.
.RB $ MANPATH
が設定されている場合には、その値がマニュアルページの検索パスとして
用いられる。
.TP
.B MANROFFOPT
.\"O Every time
.\"O .B man
.\"O invokes the formatter
.\"O .RB ( nroff ,
.\"O .BR troff ,
.\"O or
.\"O .BR groff ),
.\"O it adds the contents of
.\"O .RB $ MANROFFOPT
.\"O to the formatter's command line.
.B man
がフォーマッタ
.RB ( nroff ,
.BR troff ,
.BR groff )
を呼び出す度に、
.RB $ MANROFFOPT
の内容をフォーマッタのコマンドラインに追加する。
.TP
.B MANROFFSEQ
.\"O If
.\"O .RB $ MANROFFSEQ
.\"O is set, its value is used to determine the set of preprocessors to pass
.\"O each manual page through.
.RB $ MANROFFSEQ
が設定されている場合には、その値は各々のマニュアルページを処理する
プリプロセッサのセットを定義する。
.\"O The default preprocessor list is system dependent.
デフォルトのプリプロセッサのセットはシステムによって異なる。
.TP
.B MANSECT
.\"O If
.\"O .RB $ MANSECT
.\"O is set, its value is a colon-delimited list of sections and it is used to
.\"O determine which manual sections to search and in what order.
.RB $ MANSECT
が設定されている場合には、その値はセクションのリスト (コロン区切り)
として扱われ、マニュアルのどのセクションを検索するかを決定する際に
用いられる。
.\"O The default is
.\"O "1 1p 8 2 3 3p 3pm 4 5 6 7 9 0p n l p o 1x 2x 3x 4x 5x 6x 7x 8x",
.\"O unless overridden by the
.\"O .B SECTION
.\"O directive in
.\"O .IR /etc/man_db.conf .
.I /etc/man_db.conf
の
.B SECTION
指定で上書きされない限り、デフォルトは
"1 1p 8 2 3 3p 3pm 4 5 6 7 9 0p n l p o 1x 2x 3x 4x 5x 6x 7x 8x"
である
.TP
.BR MANPAGER , " PAGER"
.\"O If
.\"O .RB $ MANPAGER
.\"O or
.\"O .RB $ PAGER
.\"O is set
.\"O .RB ($ MANPAGER
.\"O is used in preference), its value is used as the name of the program used to
.\"O display the manual page.
.RB $ MANPAGER
または
.RB $ PAGER
が設定されている場合には、その値がマニュアルページを表示する
プログラムの名前として用いられる
.RB ($ MANPAGER
が優先して使用される)。
.\"O By default,
.\"O .B less
.\"O is used, falling back to
.\"O .B cat
.\"O if
.\"O .B less
.\"O is not found or is not executable.
デフォルトでは
.B less
が使われ、
.B less
が見つからない場合、または実行不能である場合、
.B cat
が使われる。

.\"O The value may be a simple command name or a command with arguments, and may
.\"O use shell quoting (backslashes, single quotes, or double quotes).
この値は、単純なコマンド名か引き数付きのコマンドで、シェルの
エスケープ文字 (バックスラッシュ、シングルクォート、ダブルクォート)
を使用している場合がある。
.\"O It may not use pipes to connect multiple commands; if you need that, use a
.\"O wrapper script, which may take the file to display either as an argument or
.\"O on standard input.
パイプを使用して複数のコマンドをつなげることはできない。
そのような必要性がある場合、表示するファイルを、単一の引き数または
標準入力として受け取るラッパースクリプトを使用すること。
.TP
.B MANLESS
.\"O If
.\"O .RB $ MANLESS
.\"O is set, its value will be used as the default prompt string for the
.\"O .B less
.\"O pager, as if it had been passed using the
.\"O .B \-r
.\"O option (so any occurrences of the text
.\"O .B $MAN_PN
.\"O will be expanded in the same way).
.RB $ MANLESS
が設定されると、
.B \-r
オプションを使って渡されたのと同様に、
.B less
ページャーのデフォルトのプロンプト文字列として使われる
(よって、文字列
.B $MAN_PN
が存在する場合は、同様に展開される)。
.\"O For example, if you want to set the prompt string unconditionally to
.\"O \(lqmy prompt string\(rq, set
.\"O .RB $ MANLESS
.\"O to
.\"O .RB \(oq \-Psmy\ prompt\ string \(cq.
例えば、プロンプト文字列を無条件に
\(lqmy prompt string\(rq に設定したい場合、
.RB $ MANLESS
を
.RB \(oq \-Psmy\ prompt\ string \(cq
に設定すること。
.\"O Using the
.\"O .B \-r
.\"O option overrides this environment variable.
.B \-r
オプションを指定すると、この環境変数を上書きする。
.TP
.B BROWSER
.\"O If
.\"O .RB $ BROWSER
.\"O is set, its value is a colon-delimited list of commands, each of which in
.\"O turn is used to try to start a web browser for
.\"O .B man
.\"O .BR \-\-html .
.RB $ BROWSER
が設定されている場合、この値はコロンで区切られたコマンドのリスト
として、
.B "man \-\-html"
用のウェブブラウザーとして順番に試す。
.\"O In each command,
.\"O .I %s
.\"O is replaced by a filename containing the HTML output from
.\"O .BR groff ,
.\"O .I %%
.\"O is replaced by a single percent sign (%), and
.\"O .I %c
.\"O is replaced by a colon (:).
それぞれのコマンドでは、
.I %s
は
.B groff
の出力を保存したファイル名に、
.I %%
は単一のパーセント記号 (%) に、
.I %c
はコロン (:) にそれぞれ置換される。
.TP
.B SYSTEM
.\"O If
.\"O .RB $ SYSTEM
.\"O is set, it will have the same effect as if it had been specified as the
.\"O argument to the
.\"O .B \-m
.\"O option.
.RB $ SYSTEM
環境変数が設定されている場合には、
.B \-m
オプションに指定された場合と同じ効果を持つ。 
.TP
.B MANOPT
.\"O If
.\"O .RB $ MANOPT
.\"O is set, it will be parsed prior to
.\"O .B man's
.\"O command line and is expected to be in a similar format.
.RB $ MANOPT
が設定されている場合には、その内容が
.B man
のコマンドラインに先立って解釈される。
形式はコマンドラインのものと同じである。
.\"O As all of the other
.\"O .B man
.\"O specific environment variables can be expressed as command line options, and
.\"O are thus candidates for being included in
.\"O .RB $ MANOPT
.\"O it is expected that they will become obsolete.
.B man
に影響する他のすべての環境変数には、同じ効果を持つコマンドライン
オプションが存在し、したがって
.RB $ MANOPT
に記述することができるので、これらの環境変数はいずれ使用されなく
なるだろう。
.\"O N.B.  All spaces that should be interpreted as part of an option's argument
.\"O must be escaped.
オプションの引き数の一部として解釈させたいすべてのスペースは、
エスケープする必要があることに注意すること。
.TP
.B MANWIDTH
.\"O If
.\"O .RB $ MANWIDTH
.\"O is set, its value is used as the line length for which manual pages should
.\"O be formatted.
.RB $ MANWIDTH
が設定されると、マニュアルページを整形する時の行の長さとして
使われる。
.\"O If it is not set, manual pages will be formatted with a line length
.\"O appropriate to the current terminal (using the value of
.\"O .RB $ COLUMNS ,
.\"O and
.\"O .BR ioctl (2)
.\"O if available, or falling back to 80 characters if neither is available).
この環境変数が設定されない場合、マニュアルページは、現在の端末に
適した行の長さで整形される (利用可能であれば、
.RB $ COLUMNS
と
.BR ioctl (2)
を使い、利用可能でない場合は、80 文字にされる)。
.\"O Cat pages will only be saved when the default formatting can be used, that
.\"O is when the terminal line length is between 66 and 80 characters.
cat ページはデフォルトの整形が使える場合、
つまり、端末の行の長さが 66 から 80 文字の場合にのみ保存される。
.TP
.B MAN_KEEP_FORMATTING
.\"O Normally, when output is not being directed to a terminal (such as to a file
.\"O or a pipe), formatting characters are discarded to make it easier to read
.\"O the result without special tools.
通常、端末以外 (ファイルやパイプなど) に出力する場合、
特別なツールが使用しなくても結果を読みやすくするために書式文字は
破棄される。
.\"O However, if
.\"O .RB $ MAN_KEEP_FORMATTING
.\"O is set to any non-empty value, these formatting characters are retained.
しかし、
.RB $ MAN_KEEP_FORMATTING
を空以外に設定した場合、書式文字が残される。
.\"O This may be useful for wrappers around
.\"O .B man
.\"O that can interpret formatting characters.
これにより
.B man
と併せて使用するラッパーに書式文字を解釈させることができる。
.TP
.B MAN_KEEP_STDERR
.\"O Normally, when output is being directed to a terminal (usually to a pager),
.\"O any error output from the command used to produce formatted versions of
.\"O manual pages is discarded to avoid interfering with the pager's display.
通常、端末 (通常はページャー) に出力する時、ページャーの表示と
干渉するのを避けるため、マニュアルページを整形するコマンドのエラー
出力は破棄される。
.\"O Programs such as
.\"O .B groff
.\"O often produce relatively minor error messages about typographical problems
.\"O such as poor alignment, which are unsightly and generally confusing when
.\"O displayed along with the manual page.
.B groff
のようなプログラムは、整列がうまくできないなどの、印字問題に関する
比較的軽微なエラーメッセージをしばしば出力する。
これは、マニュアルページと併せて表示すると、見苦しく、
混乱の原因となる。
.\"O However, some users want to see them anyway, so, if
.\"O .RB $ MAN_KEEP_STDERR
.\"O is set to any non-empty value, error output will be displayed as usual.
しかし、エラーメッセージを見る必要がある場合、
.RB $ MAN_KEEP_STDERR
を空以外に設定すると、エラー出力は通常通り表示される。
.TP
.BR LANG , " LC_MESSAGES"
.\"O Depending on system and implementation, either or both of
.\"O .RB $ LANG
.\"O and
.\"O .RB $ LC_MESSAGES
.\"O will be interrogated for the current message locale.
システムと実装に依存するが、
.RB $ LANG
と
.RB $ LC_MESSAGES
のどちらか、あるいは両方は、カレントロケールの指定に用いられる。
.\"O .B man
.\"O will display its messages in that locale (if available).
.B man
は自分自身のメッセージを、そのロケールで出力する (可能な場合)。
.\"O See
.\"O .BR setlocale (3)
.\"O for precise details.
正確な内容は
.BR setlocale (3)
を見よ。
.\"O .SH FILES
.SH ファイル
.TP
.I /etc/man_db.conf
.\"O man-db configuration file.
man-db の設定ファイル。
.TP
.I /usr/share/man
.\"O A global manual page hierarchy.
グローバルなマニュアルページの階層。
.\"O .SH "SEE ALSO"
.SH 関連項目
.BR apropos (1),
.BR groff (1),
.BR less (1),
.BR manpath (1),
.BR nroff (1),
.BR troff (1),
.BR whatis (1),
.BR zsoelim (1),
.BR manpath (5),
.BR man (7),
.BR catman (8),
.BR mandb (8)
.PP
.\"O Documentation for some packages may be available in other formats, such as
.\"O .BR info (1)
.\"O or HTML.
パッケージによってはドキュメントが、
.BR info (1)
や HTML といった他の形式で入手可能である。
.\"O .SH HISTORY
.SH 履歴
.\"O 1990, 1991 \(en Originally written by John W.\& Eaton (jwe@che.utexas.edu).
1990, 1991 年 \(en オリジナルの著者は John W.\& Eaton (jwe@che.utexas.edu)
であった。

.\"O Dec 23 1992: Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu) applied bug fixes
.\"O supplied by Willem Kasdorp (wkasdo@nikhefk.nikef.nl).
1992年12月23日: Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu) が Willem Kasdorp
(wkasdo@nikhefk.nikef.nl) のバグフィックスを当てた。

.\"O 30th April 1994 \(en 23rd February 2000: Wilf.\& (G.Wilford@ee.surrey.ac.uk)
.\"O has been developing and maintaining this package
.\"O with the help of a few dedicated people.
1994年4月30日 \(en 2000年2月23日: Wilf.\& (G.Wilford@ee.surrey.ac.uk)
が何人かの人々の助力のもと、このパッケージの開発とメンテナンスをしていた。

.\"O 30th October 1996 \(en 30th March 2001: Fabrizio Polacco <fpolacco@debian.org>
.\"O maintained and enhanced this package for the Debian project, with the
.\"O help of all the community.
1996年10月30日 \(en 2001年3月30日: Fabrizio Polacco <fpolacco@debian.org>
がコミュニティの助力のもと、Debian プロジェクトのために、このパッケージの保守と拡張を行った。

.\"O 31st March 2001 \(en present day: Colin Watson <cjwatson@debian.org> is now
.\"O developing and maintaining man-db.
2001年3月31日 \(en 現在: Colin Watson <cjwatson@debian.org> が
man-db の開発と保守を行っている。
