.\" Man page for manpath
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 1995, Graeme W. Wilford. (Wilf.)
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2019 Colin Watson.
.\"
.\" You may distribute under the terms of the GNU General Public
.\" License as specified in the COPYING file that comes with the
.\" man-db distribution.
.\"
.\" Sun Jan 22 22:15:17 GMT 1995 Wilf. (G.Wilford@ee.surrey.ac.uk)
.\"
.\" Japanese Version Copyright (c) 1998 NAKANO Takeo all rights reserved.
.\" Translated Fri 25 Sep 1998 by NAKANO Takeo <nakano@apm.seikei.ac.jp>
.\" Modified Sun 6 Dec 1998 by NAKANO Takeo <nakano@apm.seikei.ac.jp>
.\" Updated & Modified Wed Jul  1 20:56:04 JST 2020
.\"         by Yuichi SATO <ysato444@ybb.ne.jp>
.\"
.\"WORD:        hierarchy       階層
.\"
.pc
.TH MANPATH 1 "2019-10-23" "2.9.0" "Manual pager utils"
.\"O .SH NAME
.SH 名前
.\"O manpath \- determine search path for manual pages
manpath \- マニュアルページの検索パスを決定する
.\"O .SH SYNOPSIS
.SH 書式
.B manpath
.RB [\| \-qgdc?V \|]
.RB [\| \-m
.IR system \|[\|,.\|.\|.\|]\|]
.RB [\| \-C
.IR file \|]
.\"O .SH DESCRIPTION
.SH 説明
.\"O If
.\"O .RB $ MANPATH
.\"O is set,
.\"O .B manpath
.\"O will simply display its contents and issue a warning.
環境変数
.RB $ MANPATH
が設定されている場合、
.B manpath
はその内容を表示して警告を出す。
.\"O If not,
.\"O .B manpath
.\"O will determine a suitable manual page hierarchy search path and display the
.\"O results.
それ以外の場合には、マニュアルページ階層 (hierarchy) 
の検索パスを適切に決定して、その結果を表示する。

.\"O The colon-delimited path is determined using information gained from the
.\"O man-db configuration file \(en
.\"O .RI ( "/etc/man_db.conf" )
.\"O and the user's environment.
コロンで区切られたパスのリストが、
man_db の設定ファイル \(en
.RI ( "/etc/man_db.conf" )
と、ユーザーの環境変数とから決定される。
.\"O .SH OPTIONS
.SH オプション
.TP
.BR \-q ", " \-\-quiet
.\"O Do not issue warnings.
警告を表示しない。
.TP
.BR \-d ", " \-\-debug
.\"O Print debugging information.
デバッグ情報を生成する。
.TP
.BR \-c ", " \-\-catpath
.\"O Produce a catpath as opposed to a manpath.
.\"O Once the manpath is determined,
.\"O each path element is converted to its relative catpath.
manpath に対して catpath を生成する。
まず manpath を決定して、それに含まれるパス要素を、
それぞれ対応する catpath に変換する。
.TP
.BR \-g ", " \-\-global
.\"O Produce a manpath consisting of all paths named as "global" within the
.\"O man-db configuration file.
man_db の設定ファイル中で、"global" という名前がついているものを
すべて含んだ manpath を生成する。
.TP
\fB\-m\fR \fIsystem\fR\|[\|,.\|.\|.\|]\|, \
\fB\-\-systems=\fIsystem\fR\|[\|,.\|.\|.\|]
.\"O If this system has access to other operating system's manual hierarchies,
.\"O this option can be used to include them in the output of
.\"O .BR manpath .
現在のシステムから、他のオペレーティングシステムについてのマニュアル
階層にアクセスできる場合には、このオプションをつければそれらが
.B manpath
の出力に含まれる。
.\"O To include NewOS's manual page hierarchies use the option
.\"O .B \-m
.\"O .BR NewOS .
例えば NewOS のマニュアルページ階層を検索する場合には、
.B \-m
.B NewOS
のようなオプションを指定すればよい。

.\"O The
.\"O .I system
.\"O specified can be a combination of comma delimited operating system names.
.I system
には複数のオペレーティングシステムをコンマで区切った形式で指定できる。
.\"O To include the native operating system's manual page hierarchies,
.\"O the system name
.\"O .B man
.\"O must be included in the argument string.
ネイティブのオペレーティングシステムのマニュアルページ階層を
含ませる場合は、システム名として
.B man
を引き数文字列に加える必要がある。
.\"O This option will override the
.\"O .RB $ SYSTEM
.\"O environment variable.
このオプションは
.BR $ SYSTEM
環境変数を上書きする。
.TP
.BI \-C\  file \fR,\ \fB\-\-config\-file= file
.\"O Use this user configuration file rather than the default of
.\"O .IR ~/.manpath .
デフォルトの
.I ~/.manpath
ではなく、ユーザーの設定ファイルを使う。
.TP
.BR \-? ", " \-\-help
.\"O Print a help message and exit.
ヘルプメッセージを表示して、終了する。
.TP
.B \-\-usage
.\"O Print a short usage message and exit.
簡単な使用法のメッセージを表示して、終了する。
.TP
.BR \-V ", " \-\-version
.\"O Display version information.
バージョン情報を表示して、終了する。
.\"O .SH ENVIRONMENT
.SH 環境変数
.TP
.B MANPATH
.\"O If
.\"O .RB $ MANPATH
.\"O is set,
.\"O .B manpath
.\"O displays its value rather than determining it on the fly.
.RB $ MANPATH
が設定されていると、
.B manpath
はその値を表示し、検索パスをその場で決定することはしない。
.\"O If
.\"O .RB $ MANPATH
.\"O is prefixed by a colon, then the value of the variable is appended
.\"O to the list determined from the content of the configuration files.
.RB $ MANPATH
の先頭にコロンがあると、設定ファイルの内容で決定されるリストの
後に、この変数の値が追加される。
.\"O If the colon comes at the end of the value in the variable, then the
.\"O determined list is appended to the content of the variable.
この変数の末尾にコロンがあると、この変数の後に、
設定ファイルの内容で決定されるリストが追加される。
.\"O If the value of the variable contains a double colon
.\"O .RB ( :: ),
.\"O then the determined list is inserted in the middle of the value, between
.\"O the two colons.
この変数が 2 つのコロン
.RB ( :: )
を含んでいると、2 つのコロンの間に、
設定ファイルの内容で決定されるリストが挿入される。
.TP
.B SYSTEM
.\"O If
.\"O .RB $ SYSTEM
.\"O is set, it will have the same effect as if it had been specified as the
.\"O argument to the
.\"O .B \-m
.\"O option.
.RB $ SYSTEM
環境変数が設定されている場合には、その内容が
.B \-m
オプションの引き数として指定された場合と同じ効力を持つ。
.\"O .SH FILES
.SH ファイル
.TP \w'/etc/man_db.conf'u+2n
.I /etc/man_db.conf
.\"O man-db configuration file.
man-db の設定ファイル。
.\"O .SH "SEE ALSO"
.SH 関連項目
.BR apropos (1),
.BR man (1),
.BR whatis (1)
.\"O .SH AUTHOR
.SH 著者
.nf
Wilf.\& (G.Wilford@ee.surrey.ac.uk).
Fabrizio Polacco (fpolacco@debian.org).
Colin Watson (cjwatson@debian.org).
.fi
