.\" Man page for whatis
.\"
.\" Copyright (C), 1994, 1995, Graeme W. Wilford. (Wilf.)
.\"
.\" You may distribute under the terms of the GNU General Public
.\" License as specified in the file COPYING that comes with the
.\" man-db distribution.
.\"
.\" Sat Oct 29 13:09:31 GMT 1994  Wilf. (G.Wilford@ee.surrey.ac.uk)
.\"
.\" Japanese Version Copyright (c) 1998 NAKANO Takeo all rights reserved.
.\" Translated Fri 25 Sep 1998 by NAKANO Takeo <nakano@apm.seikei.ac.jp>
.\" Modified Sun 6 Dec 1998 by NAKANO Takeo <nakano@apm.seikei.ac.jp>
.\"
.\"WORD:        hierarchy       階層
.\"WORD:        description     要約(文)
.\"
.pc
.TH WHATIS 1 "2019-10-23" "2.9.0" "Manual pager utils"
.\"O .SH NAME
.SH 名前
.\"O whatis \- display one-line manual page descriptions
whatis \- マニュアルページの要約を表示する
.\"O .SH SYNOPSIS
.SH 書式
.B whatis
.RB [\| \-dlv?V \|]
.RB [\| \-r \||\| \-w\c
\|]
.RB [\| \-s
.IR list \|]
.RB [\| \-m
.IR system \|[\|,.\|.\|.\|]\|]
.RB [\| \-M
.IR path \|]
.RB [\| \-L
.IR locale \|]
.RB [\| \-C
.IR file \|]
.I name
\&.\|.\|.
.\"O .SH DESCRIPTION
.SH 説明
.\"O Each manual page has a short description available within it.
それぞれのマニュアルページには、先頭に短い要約文が書かれている。
.\"O .B whatis
.\"O searches the manual page names and displays the manual page descriptions
.\"O of any
.\"O .I name
.\"O matched.
.B whatis
はマニュアルページの名前を検索し、
.I name
にマッチしたすべてのマニュアルから、この要約文を取り出して表示する。

.\"O .I name
.\"O may contain wildcards
.\"O .RB ( \-w )
.\"O or be a regular expression
.\"O .RB ( \-r ).
.I name
にはワイルドカード
.RB ( \-w )
や正規表現
.RB ( \-r )
を用いることができる。
.\"O Using these options, it may be necessary to quote the
.\"O .I name
.\"O or escape (\\) the special characters to stop the shell from interpreting
.\"O them.
これらのオプションを用いた際には、
.I name
をクォートするか、特殊キャラクタをエスケープ (\\) して、
シェルによって解釈されないようにする必要があるかもしれない。

.\"O .B index
.\"O databases are used during the search, and are updated by the
.\"O .B mandb
.\"O program.
.B index
データベースが検索の際に用いられ、これは
.B mandb
プログラムで更新される。
Depending on your installation, this may be run by a periodic cron job, or
may need to be run manually after new manual pages have been installed.
.\"O To produce an old style text
.\"O .B whatis
.\"O database from the relative
.\"O .B index
.\"O database, issue the command:
古いスタイルの
.B whatis
テキストデータベースを、対応する
.B index
データベースから作りたい場合には、以下のようなコマンドを実行すればよい。

.B whatis \-M
.I manpath
.B \-w  '*' | sort >
.I manpath/whatis

.\"O where
.\"O .I manpath
.\"O is a manual page hierarchy such as
.\"O .IR /usr/man .
ここで
.I manpath
には
.I /usr/man
のような、マニュアルページの階層 (hierarchy) を指定する。
.\"O .SH OPTIONS
.SH オプション
.TP
.BR \-d ", " \-\-debug
.\"O Print debugging information.
デバッグ情報を表示する。
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-verbose
Print verbose warning messages.
.TP
.BR \-r ", " \-\-regex
.\"O Interpret each
.\"O .I name
.\"O as a regular expression.
.I name
を正規表現として解釈する。
.\"O If a
.\"O .I name
.\"O matches any part of a page name, a match will be made.
.I name
がページ名の一部分にマッチすれば、マッチしたとみなされる。
.\"O This option causes
.\"O .B whatis
.\"O to be somewhat slower due to the nature of database searches.
このオプションを指定すると、データベース検索の性質上、
.B whatis
の動作が多少遅くなる。
.TP
.BR \-w ", " \-\-wildcard
.\"O Interpret each
.\"O .I name
.\"O as a pattern containing shell style wildcards.
.I name
をシェル形式のワイルドカードを含むパターンとして解釈する。
.\"O For a match to be made, an expanded
.\"O .I name
.\"O must match the entire page name.
マッチするためには、展開された
.I name
がページ名の全体にマッチしなければならない。
.\"O This option causes
.\"O .B whatis
.\"O to be somewhat slower due to the nature of database searches.
このオプションを指定すると、データベース検索の性質上、
.B whatis
の動作が多少遅くなる。
.TP
.BR \-l ", " \-\-long
Do not trim output to the terminal width.
Normally, output will be truncated to the terminal width to avoid ugly
results from poorly-written
.B NAME
sections.
.TP
\fB\-s\fR \fIlist\/\fR, \
\fB\-\-sections=\fIlist\/\fR, \
\fB\-\-section=\fIlist\fR
Search only the given manual sections.
.I list
is a colon- or comma-separated list of sections.
If an entry in
.I list
is a simple section, for example "3", then the displayed list of
descriptions will include pages in sections "3", "3perl", "3x", and so on;
while if an entry in
.I list
has an extension, for example "3perl", then the list will only include
pages in that exact part of the manual section.
.TP
\fB\-m\fR \fIsystem\fR\|[\|,.\|.\|.\|]\|, \
\fB\-\-systems=\fIsystem\fR\|[\|,.\|.\|.\|]
.\"O If this system has access to other operating system's manual page names,
.\"O they can be accessed using this option.
現在のシステムから、他のオペレーティングシステムについてのマニュアルに
アクセスできる場合には、このオプションをつけるとそれらのマニュアルが
検索される。
.\"O To search NewOS's manual page names,
.\"O use the option
.\"O .B \-m
.\"O .BR NewOS .
NewOS のマニュアルページを検索する場合には、
.B \-m
.B NewOS
のようなオプションを指定する。

.\"O The
.\"O .I system
.\"O specified can be a combination of comma delimited operating system names.
.I system
には複数のオペレーティングシステムをコンマで区切った形式で指定できる。
.\"O To include a search of the native operating system's
.\"O manual page names, include the system name
.\"O .B man
.\"O in the argument string.
ネイティブのオペレーティングシステムの
マニュアルページ名を検索の対象に含めるためには、システム名
.B man
を引き数文字列に加える。
.\"O This option will override the
.\"O .RB $ SYSTEM
.\"O environment variable.
このオプションは
.RB $ SYSTEM
環境変数を上書きする。
.TP
.BI \-M\  path \fR,\ \fB\-\-manpath= path
.\"O Specify an alternate set of colon-delimited manual page hierarchies to
.\"O search.
検索対象にするマニュアルページの階層を変えたい場合、それらをコロンで
区切った形式で指定する。
.\"O By default,
.\"O .B whatis
.\"O uses the
.\"O .RB $ MANPATH
.\"O environment variable, unless it is empty or unset, in which case it will
.\"O determine an appropriate manpath based on your
.\"O .RB $ PATH
.\"O environment variable.
デフォルトでは、
.B whatis
は環境変数
.RB $ MANPATH
を用いる。これが空だったり設定されていなかった場合には、
.RB $ PATH
環境変数に基づいて、適切な manpath を決めようと試みる。
.\"O This option overrides the contents of
.\"O .RB $ MANPATH .
このオプションは
.RB $ MANPATH
の内容を上書きする。
.TP
.BI \-L\  locale \fR,\ \fB\-\-locale= locale
.B whatis
will normally determine your current locale by a call to the C function
.BR setlocale (3)
which interrogates various environment variables, possibly including
.RB $ LC_MESSAGES
and
.RB $ LANG .
To temporarily override the determined value, use this option to supply a
.I locale
string directly to
.BR whatis .
Note that it will not take effect until the search for pages actually
begins.
Output such as the help message will always be displayed in the initially
determined locale.
.TP
.BI \-C\  file \fR,\ \fB\-\-config\-file= file
Use this user configuration file rather than the default of
.IR ~/.manpath .
.TP
.BR \-? ", " \-\-help
.\"O Print a help message and exit.
ヘルプメッセージを表示して、終了する。
.TP
.BR \-\-usage
.\"O Print a short usage message and exit.
簡単な使用法のメッセージを表示して、終了する。
.TP
.BR \-V ", " \-\-version
.\"O Display version information.
バージョン情報を表示する。
.\"O .SH "EXIT STATUS"
.SH 返り値
.TP
.B 0
.\"O Successful program execution.
プログラムの実行に成功した。
.TP
.B 1
.\"O Usage, syntax or configuration file error.
使用法、文法、設定ファイルのいずれかにエラーがある。
.TP
.B 2
.\"O Operational error.
実行時エラー。
.TP
.B 16
.\"O Nothing was found that matched the criteria specified.
指定したキーワードにマッチするものが見つからなかった。
.\"O .SH ENVIRONMENT
.SH 環境変数
.TP
.B SYSTEM
.\"O If
.\"O .RB $ SYSTEM
.\"O is set, it will have the same effect as if it had been specified as the
.\"O argument to the
.\"O .B \-m
.\"O option.
.RB $ SYSTEM
環境変数が設定されている場合には、その内容が
.B \-m
オプションの引き数として指定された場合と同じ効力を持つ。
.TP
.B MANPATH
.\"O If
.\"O .RB $ MANPATH
.\"O is set, its value is interpreted as the colon-delimited manual page
.\"O hierarchy search path to use.
.RB $ MANPATH
が設定されていると、その内容は、検索対象とするマニュアルの階層を
コロンで区切ったリストとみなされる。
.TP
.B MANWIDTH
If
.RB $ MANWIDTH
is set, its value is used as the terminal width (see the
.B \-\-long
option).
If it is not set, the terminal width will be calculated using the value of
.RB $ COLUMNS ,
and
.BR ioctl (2)
if available, or falling back to 80 characters if all else fails.
.\"O .SH FILES
.SH ファイル
.TP
.I /usr/share/man/index.(bt|db|dir|pag)
.\"O A traditional global
.\"O .I index
.\"O database cache.
従来形式のグローバルな
.I index
データベースキャッシュ。
.TP
.I /var/cache/man/index.(bt|db|dir|pag)
.\"O An FHS
.\"O compliant global
.\"O .I index
.\"O database cache.
FHS 互換のグローバルな
.I index
データベースキャッシュ。
.TP
.I /usr/share/man/\|.\|.\|.\|/whatis
.\"O A traditional
.\"O .B whatis
.\"O text database.
従来形式の
.B whatis
テキストデータベース。
.\"O .SH "SEE ALSO"
.SH 関連項目
.BR apropos (1),
.BR man (1),
.BR mandb (8)
.\"O .SH AUTHOR
.SH 著者
.nf
Wilf.\& (G.Wilford@ee.surrey.ac.uk).
Fabrizio Polacco (fpolacco@debian.org).
Colin Watson (cjwatson@debian.org).
.fi
