.\" Man page for zsoelim
.\"
.\" Copyright (C), 1994, 1995, Graeme W. Wilford. (Wilf.)
.\"
.\" You may distribute under the terms of the GNU General Public
.\" License as specified in the file COPYING that comes with the
.\" man-db distribution.
.\"
.\" Sat Dec 10 19:33:32 GMT 1994  Wilf. (G.Wilford@ee.surrey.ac.uk)
.\"
.\" Japanese Version Copyright (c) 1998 NAKANO Takeo all rights reserved.
.\" Translated Fri 25 Sep 1998 by NAKANO Takeo <nakano@apm.seikei.ac.jp>
.\" Modified Sun 6 Dec 1998 by NAKANO Takeo <nakano@apm.seikei.ac.jp>
.\" Updated & Modified Wed Jul  1 23:57:20 JST 2020
.\"         by Yuichi SATO <ysato444@ybb.ne.jp>
.\"
.pc
.TH ZSOELIM 1 "2019-10-23" "2.9.0" "Manual pager utils"
.\"O .SH NAME
.SH 名前
.\"O zsoelim \- satisfy .so requests in roff input
zsoelim \- roff の入力における .so 命令を実行する
.\"O .SH SYNOPSIS
.SH 書式
.B zsoelim
.RB [\| \-CVh \|]
.RI [\| file
\&.\|.\|.\|]
.\"O .SH DESCRIPTION
.SH 説明
.\"O .B zsoelim
.\"O parses
.\"O .I file
.\"O arguments, or if none are specified, its standard input for lines of the
.\"O form:
.B zsoelim
は
.I file
引き数で与えられたファイル (何も与えられなかった場合は標準入力) を
読み込み、以下のような形式の行を展開する。

.B .so
.RI <\| filename \|>

.\"O These requests are replaced by the contents of the
.\"O .I filename
.\"O specified.
.\"O If the request cannot be met,
.\"O .B zsoelim
.\"O looks for
.\"O .I filename.ext
.\"O where
.\"O .I .ext
.\"O can be one of
.\"O .BR .gz ,
.\"O .BR .Z
.\"O or
.\"O .BR .z .
このような命令行は、指定された
.I filename
の内容で置き代えられる。指定されたファイルが見つからない場合には、
.B zsoelim
は
.I filename.ext
という形式のファイルを探す。ここで
.I .ext
は
.BR .gz ", " .Z ", " .z
のどれかである。
.\"O Other extension types may be supported depending upon compile time options.
他の形式の拡張子がサポートされていることもある。
これはコンパイル時の指定による。
.\"O If the request can be met by a compressed file, this file is decompressed
.\"O using an appropriate decompressor and its output is used to satisfy
.\"O the request.
命令によって見つかったファイルが圧縮形式だった場合には、
このファイルは適切なプログラムで展開され、その出力が用いられる。

.\"O Traditionally,
.\"O .B soelim
.\"O programs were used to allow roff preprocessors to be able to preprocess the
.\"O files referred to by the requests.
.\"O This particular version was written to circumvent problems created by
.\"O support for compressed manual pages.
このような命令で参照されたファイルを roff プリプロセッサに渡して
前処理を行わせる作業には、従来は
.B soelim
というプログラムが用いられた。この特殊なバージョンは、
圧縮マニュアルページをサポートしたことで生じる問題を回避するために書かれた。
.\"O .SH OPTIONS
.SH オプション
.TP
.BR \-C ", " \-\-compatible
.\"O This flag is available for compatibility with other
.\"O .B soelim
.\"O programs.
.\"O Its use is to enable .so requests followed by something other than
.\"O whitespace.
.\"O As this is already the default behaviour, it is ignored.
このフラグは、他の
.B zsoelim
プログラムとの互換性のために用意されている。このフラグの目的は、.so に
空白以外の文字が続いた命令を有効にすることであるが、
このプログラムではそもそもデフォルトの動作なので、単に無視される。
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
.\"O Print a help message and exit.
ヘルプメッセージを表示して、終了する。
.TP
.BR \-V ", " \-\-version
.\"O Display version information.
バージョン情報を表示する。
.\"O .SH "SEE ALSO"
.SH 関連項目
.BR groff (1),
.BR man (1),
.BR nroff (1),
.BR troff (1)
.\"O .SH AUTHOR
.SH 著者
.nf
Wilf.\& (G.Wilford@ee.surrey.ac.uk).
Fabrizio Polacco (fpolacco@debian.org).
Colin Watson (cjwatson@debian.org).
.fi
