.\"
.\" Japanese Version Copyright (c) 2019 Yuichi SATO
.\"         all rights reserved.
.\" Translated Mon Jul 15 18:54:17 JST 2019
.\"         by Yuichi SATO <ysato444@ybb.ne.jp>
.\"
.TH IFCFG 8 "September 24 2009" "iproute2" "Linux"
.\"O .SH NAME
.SH 名前
.\"O ifcfg \- simplistic script which replaces ifconfig IP management
ifcfg \- ifconfig による IP 管理を置き換えるシンプルなスクリプト
.\"O .SH SYNOPSIS
.SH 書式
.ad l
.in +8
.ti -8
.B ifcfg
.RI "[ " DEVICE " ] [ " command " ] " ADDRESS " [ " PEER " ] "
.sp

.\"O .SH DESCRIPTION
.SH 説明
.\"O This manual page documents briefly the
.\"O .B ifcfg
.\"O command.
このマニュアルは
.B ifcfg
コマンドを短くドキュメント化している。
.PP
.\"O This is a simplistic script replacing one option of
.\"O .B ifconfig
.\"O , namely, IP address management. It not only adds
.\"O addresses, but also carries out Duplicate Address Detection RFC-DHCP,
.\"O sends unsolicited ARP to update the caches of other hosts sharing
.\"O the interface, adds some control routes and restarts Router Discovery
.\"O when it is necessary.
これは
.B ifconfig
の 1 つのオプション、つまり、IP アドレス管理を置き換える簡単なスクリプトである。
これは、アドレスを追加するだけでなく、必要に応じて、
重複アドレス検出 (Duplicate Address Detection) RFC-DHCP の実行、
インタフェースを共有する他のホストのキャッシュをアップデートする
要求のなかった (unsolicited) ARP の送信、
制御ルートの追加と Router Discovery の再起動などを行う。

.\"O .SH IFCONFIG - COMMAND SYNTAX
.SH IFCONFIG - コマンド書式

.\"O .SS
.TP
.B DEVICE
.\"O - it may have alias, suffix, separated by colon.
- エイリアス、サフィックスをコンマで区切って指定できる。

.TP
.B command
.\"O - add, delete or stop.
- add, delete, stop のいずれか。

.TP
.B ADDRESS
.\"O - optionally followed by prefix length.
- オプションとしてプレフィックスの長さを付けることをができる。

.TP
.B peer
.\"O - optional peer address for pointpoint interfaces.
- ポイントポイントインタフェースのオプションのピアアドレス。

.\"O .SH NOTES
.SH 注意
.\"O This script is not suitable for use with IPv6.
このスクリプトは IPv6 で使うのには適していない。

.\"O .SH SEE ALSO
.SH 関連項目
.\"O .RB "IP Command reference " ip-cref.ps
.RB "IP コマンドリファレンス " ip-cref.ps
