.TH IP 8 "20 Dec 2011" "iproute2" "Linux"
.\"O .SH NAME
.SH 名前
.\"O ip \- show / manipulate routing, network devices, interfaces and tunnels
ip \- ルーティング、ネットワークデバイス、インタフェース、トンネルの表示と操作をする。
.\"O .SH SYNOPSIS
.SH 書式

.ad l
.in +8
.ti -8
.B ip
.RI "[ " OPTIONS " ] " OBJECT " { " COMMAND " | "
.BR help " }"
.sp

.ti -8
.B ip
.RB "[ " -force " ] "
.BI "-batch " filename
.sp

.ti -8
.IR OBJECT " := { "
.BR link " | " address " | " addrlabel " | " route " | " rule " | " neigh " | "\
 ntable " | " tunnel " | " tuntap " | " maddress " | "  mroute " | " mrule " | "\
 monitor " | " xfrm " | " netns " | "  l2tp " | "  tcp_metrics " | " token " | "\
 macsec " }"
.sp

.ti -8
.IR OPTIONS " := { "
\fB\-V\fR[\fIersion\fR] |
\fB\-h\fR[\fIuman-readable\fR] |
\fB\-s\fR[\fItatistics\fR] |
\fB\-d\fR[\fIetails\fR] |
\fB\-r\fR[\fIesolve\fR] |
\fB\-iec\fR |
\fB\-f\fR[\fIamily\fR] {
.BR inet " | " inet6 " | " link " } | "
\fB-4\fR |
\fB-6\fR |
\fB-I\fR |
\fB-D\fR |
\fB-B\fR |
\fB-0\fR |
\fB-l\fR[\fIoops\fR] { \fBmaximum-addr-flush-attempts\fR } |
\fB\-o\fR[\fIneline\fR] |
\fB\-rc\fR[\fIvbuf\fR] [\fBsize\fR] |
\fB\-t\fR[\fIimestamp\fR] |
\fB\-ts\fR[\fIhort\fR] |
\fB\-n\fR[\fIetns\fR] name |
\fB\-a\fR[\fIll\fR] |
\fB\-c\fR[\fIolor\fR] |
\fB\-br\fR[\fIief\fR] |
\fB\-j\fR[son\fR] |
\fB\-p\fR[retty\fR] }

.\"O .SH OPTIONS
.SH オプション

.TP
.BR "\-V" , " -Version"
.\"O Print the version of the
.\"O .B ip
.\"O utility and exit.
.B ip
ユーティリティのバージョンを表示して、終了する。

.TP
.BR "\-h", " \-human", " \-human-readable"
.\"O output statistics with human readable values followed by suffix.
人間が読みやすいように、値の後に (サイズ) 拡張子を付けて統計値を出力する。

.TP
.BR "\-b", " \-batch " <FILENAME>
.\"O Read commands from provided file or standard input and invoke them.
.\"O First failure will cause termination of ip.
指定したファイルまたは標準入力からコマンドを読み込んで起動する。
最初の失敗で、ip が終了する。

.TP
.BR "\-force"
.\"O Don't terminate ip on errors in batch mode.  If there were any errors
.\"O during execution of the commands, the application return code will be
.\"O non zero.
バッチモードでエラーがあっても ip を終了させない。
コマンドの実行中にエラーがあった場合、アプリケーションの
リターンコードは 0 以外になる。

.TP
.BR "\-s" , " \-stats" , " \-statistics"
.\"O Output more information. If the option
.\"O appears twice or more, the amount of information increases.
.\"O As a rule, the information is statistics or some time values.
より多くの情報を出力する。
オプションを 2 回以上指定すると、情報量が増える。
ルールとして、情報は統計値や時間に関する値である。

.TP
.BR "\-d" , " \-details"
.\"O Output more detailed information.
より詳細な情報を出力する。

.TP
.BR "\-l" , " \-loops " <COUNT>
.\"O Specify maximum number of loops the 'ip address flush' logic
.\"O will attempt before giving up. The default is 10.
.\"O Zero (0) means loop until all addresses are removed.
\&'ip address flush' のロジックがギブアップするまでの、
最大ループ数を指定する。
デフォルトは 10 である。
ゼロ (0) はすべてのアドレスが削除されるまでループすることを意味する。

.TP
.BR "\-f" , " \-family " <FAMILY>
.\"O Specifies the protocol family to use. The protocol family identifier
.\"O can be one of
.\"O .BR "inet" , " inet6" , " bridge" ,  " mpls"
.\"O or
.\"O .BR link .
使用するプロトコルファミリーを指定する。
プロトコルファミリーの識別子は、
.BR "inet" , " inet6" , " bridge" ,  " mpls" ,  "link"
のいずれかである。
.\"O If this option is not present,
.\"O the protocol family is guessed from other arguments. If the rest
.\"O of the command line does not give enough information to guess the
.\"O family,
.\"O .B ip
.\"O falls back to the default one, usually
.\"O .B inet
.\"O or
.\"O .BR "any" .
オプションが指定されない場合、
他の引数からプロトコルファミリーを推定する。
他のコマンドラインでファミリーを推定するのに十分な情報が
与えられない場合、
.B ip
はデフォルトのファミリー
.B inet
または
.B "any"
を選択する。
.\"O .B link
.\"O is a special family identifier meaning that no networking protocol
.\"O is involved.
.B link
は特別なファミリーの識別子で、ネットワークプロトコルが
含まれていない。

.TP
.B \-4
.\"O shortcut for
.\"O .BR "-family inet" .
.B "-family inet"
のショートカット。

.TP
.B \-6
.\"O shortcut for
.\"O .BR "\-family inet6" .
.B "\-family inet6"
のショートカット。

.TP
.B \-B
.\"O shortcut for
.\"O .BR "\-family bridge" .
.B "\-family bridge"
のショートカット。

.TP
.B \-M
.\"O shortcut for
.\"O .BR "\-family mpls" .
.B "\-family mpls"
のショートカット。

.TP
.B \-0
.\"O shortcut for
.\"O .BR "\-family link" .
.B "\-family link"
のショートカット。

.TP
.BR "\-o" , " \-oneline"
.\"O output each record on a single line, replacing line feeds
.\"O with the
.\"O .B '\e'
.\"O character. This is convenient when you want to count records
.\"O with
.\"O .BR wc (1)
.\"O or to
.\"O .BR grep (1)
.\"O the output.
ラインフィードを
.B '\e'
で置換し、各レコードを 1 行で出力する。
これはレコードを
.BR wc (1)
で数えたり、出力を
.BR grep (1)
したりするのに便利である。

.TP
.BR "\-r" , " \-resolve"
.\"O use the system's name resolver to print DNS names instead of
.\"O host addresses.
ホストアドレスではなく、DNS 名を表示するのにシステム名のリゾルバーを使う。

.TP
.BR "\-n" , " \-netns " <NETNS>
.\"O switches
.\"O .B ip
.\"O to the specified network namespace
.\"O .IR NETNS .
ネットワークネームスペース
.I NETNS
を指定するように
.B ip
を切り替える。
.\"O Actually it just simplifies executing of:
実際にこれは、

.B ip netns exec
.IR NETNS
.B ip
.RI "[ " OPTIONS " ] " OBJECT " { " COMMAND " | "
.BR help " }"

.\"O to
の実行を

.B ip
.RI "-n[etns] " NETNS " [ " OPTIONS " ] " OBJECT " { " COMMAND " | "
.BR help " }"

のように簡略化する。
.TP
.BR "\-a" , " \-all"
.\"O executes specified command over all objects, it depends if command
.\"O supports this option.
指定したコマンドをすべてのオブジェクトに実行する。
これはコマンドがこのオプションをサポートしているかに依存する。

.TP
.BR \-c [ color ][ = { always | auto | never }
.\"O Configure color output. If parameter is omitted or
.\"O .BR always ,
.\"O color output is enabled regardless of stdout state. If parameter is
.\"O .BR auto ,
.\"O stdout is checked to be a terminal before enabling color output. If
.\"O parameter is
.\"O .BR never ,
.\"O color output is disabled. If specified multiple times, the last one takes
.\"O precedence. This flag is ignored if
.\"O .B \-json
.\"O is also given.
カラー出力を設定する。
パラメータが省略されるか
.B always
の場合、標準出力の状態に関わらずカラー出力が有効化される。
パラメータが
.B auto
の場合、カラー出力を有効化する前に、標準出力が端末かをチェックする。
パラメータが
.B never
の場合、カラー出力が無効化される。
複数回指定されると、最後の指定が先に指定されたものより優先される。
このフラグは
.B \-json
が指定された場合、無視される。

.\"O Used color palette can be influenced by
.\"O .BR COLORFGBG
.\"O environment variable
.\"O (see
.\"O .BR ENVIRONMENT ).
カラーパレットは
.B COLORFGBG
環境変数に影響される
.RB ( 環境変数
を参照すること)。

.TP
.BR "\-t" , " \-timestamp"
.\"O display current time when using monitor option.
モニターオプションを使う場合、現在時刻を表示する。

.TP
.BR "\-ts" , " \-tshort"
.\"O Like
.\"O .BR \-timestamp ,
.\"O but use shorter format.
.B \-timestamp
と同様であるが、短いフォーマットを使う。

.TP
.BR "\-rc" , " \-rcvbuf" <SIZE>
.\"O Set the netlink socket receive buffer size, defaults to 1MB.
netlink ソケットの受信バッファサイズを設定する。
デフォルトは 1MB である。

.TP
.BR "\-iec"
.\"O print human readable rates in IEC units (e.g. 1Ki = 1024).
人間が読みやすい IEC 単位でレートを出力する (例 1Ki = 1024)。

.TP
.BR "\-br" , " \-brief"
.\"O Print only basic information in a tabular format for better
.\"O readability. This option is currently only supported by
.\"O .BR "ip addr show " and " ip link show " commands.
基本的な情報のみを読みやすいようにテーブル形式で表示する。
このオプションは、現在
.BR "ip addr show " と " ip link show "
コマンドでのみサポートされている。

.TP
.BR "\-j", " \-json"
.\"O Output results in JavaScript Object Notation (JSON).
結果を JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) で出力する。

.TP
.BR "\-p", " \-pretty"
.\"O The default JSON format is compact and more efficient to parse but
.\"O hard for most users to read.  This flag adds indentation for
.\"O readability.
デフォルトの JSON フォーマットはコンパクトで、パースするには効率的であるが、
多くのユーザには読みづらい。
このフラグは、読みやすいようにインデントを追加する。

.\"O .SH IP - COMMAND SYNTAX
.SH IP - コマンド書式

.SS
.I OBJECT

.TP
.B address
- protocol (IP or IPv6) address on a device.

.TP
.B addrlabel
- label configuration for protocol address selection.

.TP
.B l2tp
- tunnel ethernet over IP (L2TPv3).

.TP
.B link
- network device.

.TP
.B maddress
- multicast address.

.TP
.B monitor
- watch for netlink messages.

.TP
.B mroute
- multicast routing cache entry.

.TP
.B mrule
- rule in multicast routing policy database.

.TP
.B neighbour
- manage ARP or NDISC cache entries.

.TP
.B netns
- manage network namespaces.

.TP
.B ntable
- manage the neighbor cache's operation.

.TP
.B route
- routing table entry.

.TP
.B rule
- rule in routing policy database.

.TP
.B tcp_metrics/tcpmetrics
- manage TCP Metrics

.TP
.B token
- manage tokenized interface identifiers.

.TP
.B tunnel
- tunnel over IP.

.TP
.B tuntap
- manage TUN/TAP devices.

.TP
.B xfrm
- manage IPSec policies.

.PP
The names of all objects may be written in full or
abbreviated form, for example
.B address
can be abbreviated as
.B addr
or just
.B a.

.SS
.I COMMAND

Specifies the action to perform on the object.
The set of possible actions depends on the object type.
As a rule, it is possible to
.BR "add" , " delete"
and
.B show
(or
.B list
) objects, but some objects do not allow all of these operations
or have some additional commands. The
.B help
command is available for all objects. It prints
out a list of available commands and argument syntax conventions.
.sp
If no command is given, some default command is assumed.
Usually it is
.B list
or, if the objects of this class cannot be listed,
.BR "help" .

.\"O .SH ENVIRONMENT
.SH 環境変数
.TP
.B COLORFGBG
If set, it's value is used for detection whether background is dark or
light and use contrast colors for it.

COLORFGBG environment variable usually contains either two or three
values separated by semicolons; we want the last value in either case.
If this value is 0-6 or 8, chose colors suitable for dark background:

COLORFGBG=";0" ip -c a

.\"O .SH EXIT STATUS
.SH 返り値
Exit status is 0 if command was successful, and 1 if there is a syntax error.
If an error was reported by the kernel exit status is 2.

.\"O .SH "EXAMPLES"
.SH 例
.PP
ip addr
.RS 4
Shows addresses assigned to all network interfaces.
.RE
.PP
ip neigh
.RS 4
Shows the current neighbour table in kernel.
.RE
.PP
ip link set x up
.RS 4
Bring up interface x.
.RE
.PP
ip link set x down
.RE
.RS 4
Bring down interface x.
.RE
.PP
ip route
.RS 4
Show table routes.
.RE

.\"O .SH HISTORY
.SH 履歴
.B ip
was written by Alexey N. Kuznetsov and added in Linux 2.2.
.\"O .SH SEE ALSO
.SH 関連項目
.BR ip-address (8),
.BR ip-addrlabel (8),
.BR ip-l2tp (8),
.BR ip-link (8),
.BR ip-maddress (8),
.BR ip-monitor (8),
.BR ip-mroute (8),
.BR ip-neighbour (8),
.BR ip-netns (8),
.BR ip-ntable (8),
.BR ip-route (8),
.BR ip-rule (8),
.BR ip-tcp_metrics (8),
.BR ip-token (8),
.BR ip-tunnel (8),
.BR ip-xfrm (8)
.br
.RB "IP Command reference " ip-cref.ps
.\"O .SH REPORTING BUGS
.SH バグ報告
Report any bugs to the Network Developers mailing list
.B <netdev@vger.kernel.org>
where the development and maintenance is primarily done.
You do not have to be subscribed to the list to send a message there.

.\"O .SH AUTHOR
.SH 著者
Original Manpage by Michail Litvak <mci@owl.openwall.com>
