.\"
.\" Japanese Version Copyright (c) 2019 Yuichi SATO
.\"         all rights reserved.
.\" Translated Fri Jul 19 20:46:38 JST 2019
.\"         by Yuichi SATO <ysato444@ybb.ne.jp>
.\"
.TH LNSTAT 8
.\"O .SH NAME
.SH 名前
.\"O lnstat \- unified linux network statistics
lnstat \- 統合された Linux ネットワーク統計
.\"O .SH SYNOPSIS
.SH 書式
.B lnstat
.RI [ options ]
.\"O .SH DESCRIPTION
.SH 説明
.\"O This manual page documents briefly the
.\"O .B lnstat
.\"O command.
このマニュアルページは
.B lnstat
コマンドを短くドキュメント化している。
.PP
.\"O \fBlnstat\fP is a generalized and more feature-complete replacement for the old
.\"O rtstat program. It is commonly used to periodically print a selection of
.\"O statistical values exported by the kernel.
\fBlnstat\fP は古い rtstat プログラムを汎化して多くの特性を満たした代替である。
このプログラムは一般的に、カーネルによってエクスポートされた選択された
統計値を、定期的に表示するのに使われる。
.\"O In addition to routing cache statistics, it supports any kind of statistics the
.\"O linux kernel exports via a file in /proc/net/stat/.
ルーティングキャッシュの統計に加え、
Linux カーネルが /proc/net/stat/ 内のファイルにエクスポートした
すべての種類の統計をサポートしている。
.PP
.\"O Each file in /proc/net/stat/ contains a header line listing the column names.
/proc/net/stat/ の各ファイルは、列名をリストするヘッダ行を含む。
.\"O These names are used by \fBlnstat\fP as keys for selecting which statistics to
.\"O print. For every CPU present in the system, a line follows which lists the
.\"O actual values for each column of the file. \fBlnstat\fP sums these values up
.\"O (which in fact are counters) before printing them. After each interval, only
.\"O the difference to the last value is printed.
この列名は \fBlnstat\fP によって表示される統計を選択するキーとして使われる。
ファイルの各行には、システムにあるすべての CPU について、
実際の値をリストする行が続いている。
\fBlnstat\fP は表示を行う前に、この値 (実際にはカウンター) を合計する。
各時間間隔の後には、最後の値からの差分のみが表示される。
.PP
.\"O Files and columns may be selected by using the \fB-f\fP and \fB-k\fP
.\"O parameters. By default, all columns of all files are printed.
ファイルと列は、\fB-f\fP と \fB-k\fP パラメータを使って選択できる。
デフォルトでは、すべてのファイルのすべての列が表示される。
.\"O .SH OPTIONS
.SH オプション
.\"O lnstat supports the following options.
lnstat は以下のオプションをサポートしている。
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
.\"O Show summary of options.
オプションのサマリーを表示する。
.TP
.B \-V, \-\-version
.\"O Show version of program.
プログラムのバージョンを表示する。
.TP
.B \-c, \-\-count <count>
.\"O Print <count> number of intervals.
指定された時間間隔で <count> 回表示する。
.TP
.B \-d, \-\-dump
.\"O Dump list of available files/keys.
指定可能なファイルとキーのリストをダンプする。
.TP
.B \-f, \-\-file <file>
.\"O Statistics file to use, may be specified multiple times. By default all files in /proc/net/stat are scanned.
使用する統計ファイル。複数回指定できる。
デフォルトでは /proc/net/stat 内のすべてのファイルがスキャンされる。
.TP
.B \-i, \-\-interval <intv>
.\"O Set interval to 'intv' seconds.
時間間隔を 'intv' 秒に設定する。
.TP
.B \-j, \-\-json
.\"O Display results in JSON format
結果を JSON フォーマットで表示する。
.TP
.B \-k, \-\-keys k,k,k,...
.\"O Display only keys specified. Each key \fBk\fP is of the form \fB[file:]key\fP. If \fB<file>\fP
.\"O is given, the search for the given key is limited to that file. Otherwise the first file containing
.\"O the searched key is being used.
指定したキーのみを表示する。
各キー \fBk\fP は \fB[file:]key\fP の形式である。
\fB<file>\fP が指定された場合、指定されたキーはそのファイルからのみ検索される。
\fB<file>\fP が指定されない場合、検索キーが最初に見つかったファイルが使われる。
.TP
.B \-s, \-\-subject [0-2]
.\"O Specify display of subject/header. '0' means no header at all, '1' prints a header only at start of the program and '2' prints a header every 20 lines.
サブジェクトヘッダの表示を指定する。
\&'0' を指定すると、ヘッダを表示しない。
\&'1' を指定すると、プログラムの開始時にのみヘッダを表示する。
\&'2' を指定すると、20 行ごとにヘッダを表示する。
.TP
.B \-w, \-\-width n,n,n,...
.\"O Width for each field.
各フィールドの幅を指定する。
.\"O .SH USAGE EXAMPLES
.SH 使用例
.TP
.B # lnstat -d
.\"O Get a list of supported statistics files.
サポートされる統計ファイルのリストを取得する。
.TP
.B # lnstat -k arp_cache:entries,rt_cache:in_hit,arp_cache:destroys
.\"O Select the specified files and keys.
指定されたファイルとキーを選択する。
.TP
.B # lnstat -i 10
.\"O Use an interval of 10 seconds.
時間間隔 10 秒を使う。
.TP
.B # lnstat -f ip_conntrack
.\"O Use only the specified file for statistics.
指定したファイルのみを使って統計を表示する。
.TP
.B # lnstat -s 0
.\"O Do not print a header at all.
ヘッダを全く表示しない。
.TP
.B # lnstat -s 20
.\"O Print a header at start and every 20 lines.
ヘッダを開始時と 20 行ごとに表示する。
.TP
.B # lnstat -c -1 -i 1 -f rt_cache -k entries,in_hit,in_slow_tot
.\"O Display statistics for keys entries, in_hit and in_slow_tot of field rt_cache every second.
フィールド rt_cache のキー entries, in_hit, in_slow_tot の統計を毎秒表示する。

.\"O .SH FILES
.SH ファイル
.TP
.B /proc/net/stat/arp_cache, /proc/net/stat/ndisc_cache
.\"O Statistics around neighbor cache and ARP. \fBarp_cache\fP is for IPv4, \fBndisc_cache\fP is the same for IPv6.
近傍キャッシュ (neighbor cache) と ARP の統計。
IPv4 については \fBarp_cache\fP、IPv6 については \fBndisc_cache\fP である。
.sp
.B entries
.\"O Number of entries in the neighbor table.
近傍テーブルのエントリー数。
.sp
.B allocs
.\"O How many neighbor entries have been allocated.
近傍エントリーがいくつ確保されたか。
.sp
.B destroys
.\"O How many neighbor entries have been removed.
近傍エントリーがいくつ削除されたか。
.sp
.B hash_grows
.\"O How often the neighbor (hash) table was increased.
近傍 (ハッシュ) テーブルが何回増加したか。
.sp
.B lookups
.\"O How many lookups were performed.
検索が何回行われたか。
.sp
.B hits
.\"O How many \fBlookups\fP were successful.
\fBlookups\fP が何回成功したか。
.sp
.B res_failed
.\"O How many neighbor lookups failed.
近傍の検索が何回失敗したか。
.sp
.B rcv_probes_mcast
.\"O How many multicast neighbor solicitations were received. (IPv6 only.)
マルチキャスト近傍要請 (neighbor solicitations) を何回受信したか (IPv6 のみ)。
.sp
.B rcv_probes_ucast
.\"O How many unicast neighbor solicitations were received. (IPv6 only.)
ユニキャスト近傍要請を何回受信したか (IPv6 のみ)。
.sp
.B periodic_gc_runs
.\"O How many garbage collection runs were executed.
ガベージコレクション実行が何回行われたか。
.sp
.B forced_gc_runs
.\"O How many forced garbage collection runs were executed. Happens when adding an
.\"O entry and the table is too full.
強制ガベージコレクション実行が何回行われたか。
エントリーを追加する際に、テーブルがいっぱいであると実行される。
.sp
.B unresolved_discards
.\"O How many neighbor table entries were discarded due to lookup failure.
検索の失敗により、近傍テーブルエントリーがいくつ破棄されたか。
.sp
.B table_fulls
.\"O Number of table overflows. Happens if table is full and forced GC run (see
.\"O \fBforced_gc_runs\fP) has failed.
テーブルオーバーフローの回数。
テーブルがいっぱいで、かつ強制 GC 実行 (\fBforced_gc_runs\fP を参照) が
失敗した場合に起こる。

.TP
.B /proc/net/stat/ip_conntrack, /proc/net/stat/nf_conntrack
.\"O Conntrack related counters. \fBip_conntrack\fP is for backwards compatibility
.\"O with older userspace only and shows the same data as \fBnf_conntrack\fP.
conntrack (コネクション追跡) に関連するカウンター。
\fBip_conntrack\fP は古いユーザースペースの後方互換のためにあり、
\fBnf_conntrack\fP と同じデータを表示する。
.sp
.B entries
.\"O Number of entries in conntrack table.
conntrack テーブルのエントリー数。
.sp
.B searched
.\"O Number of conntrack table lookups performed.
conntrack テーブルの検索が何回行われたか。
.sp
.B found
.\"O Number of \fBsearched\fP entries which were successful.
\fBsearched\fP エントリーが何回成功したか。
.sp
.B new
.\"O Number of conntrack entries added which were not expected before.
conntrack エントリーが予測されないうちに何回追加されたか。
.sp
.B invalid
.\"O Number of packets seen which can not be tracked.
追跡できなかったパケットの数。
.sp
.B ignore
.\"O Number of packets seen which are already connected to a conntrack entry.
conntrack エントリーに既に紐付けられたパケットの数。
.sp
.B delete
.\"O Number of conntrack entries which were removed.
削除された conntrack エントリーの数。
.sp
.B delete_list
.\"O Number of conntrack entries which were put to dying list.
削除予定 (dying) リストに入れられた conntrack エントリーの数。
.sp
.B insert
.\"O Number of entries inserted into the list.
リストに入れられたエントリーの数。
.sp
.B insert_failed
.\"O Number of entries for which list insertion was attempted but failed (happens if
.\"O the same entry is already present).
リストに入れようとして失敗したエントリーの数
(同じエントリーが既に存在する場合に起こる)。
.sp
.B drop
.\"O Number of packets dropped due to conntrack failure. Either new conntrack entry
.\"O allocation failed, or protocol helper dropped the packet.
conntrack の失敗により、ドロップされたパケット数。
新しい conntrack エントリーの確保に失敗したか、プロトコルヘルパーがパケットを
ドロップした。
.sp
.B early_drop
.\"O Number of dropped conntrack entries to make room for new ones, if maximum table
.\"O size was reached.
最大テーブルサイズに達していて、新しい conntrack エントリーのための
場所を確保するためにドロップされた conntrack エントリーの数。
.sp
.B icmp_error
.\"O Number of packets which could not be tracked due to error situation. This is a
.\"O subset of \fBinvalid\fP.
エラー状況のために追跡できなかったパケット数。
これは \fBinvalid\fP の一部である。
.sp
.B expect_new
.\"O Number of conntrack entries added after an expectation for them was already
.\"O present.
conntrack エントリーが予測された後で、何個追加されたか。
.sp
.B expect_create
.\"O Number of expectations added.
追加された予測エントリーの数。
.sp
.B expect_delete
.\"O Number of expectations deleted.
削除された予測エントリーの数。
.sp
.B search_restart
.\"O Number of conntrack table lookups which had to be restarted due to hashtable
.\"O resizes.
ハッシュテーブルのリサイズで、リスタートしなければならなかった
conntrack テーブル検索の回数。

.TP
.B /proc/net/stat/rt_cache
.\"O Routing cache statistics.
ルーティングキャッシュの統計。
.sp
.B entries
.\"O Number of entries in routing cache.
ルーティングキャッシュ内のエントリー数。
.sp
.B in_hit
.\"O Number of route cache hits for incoming packets. Deprecated since IP route
.\"O cache removal, therefore always zero.
流入パケットに対するルートキャッシュのヒット数。
IP ルートキャッシュが削除されて廃止されたため、常に 0 になる。
.sp
.B in_slow_tot
.\"O Number of routing cache entries added for input traffic.
入力トラフィックに対して追加されたルーティングキャッシュ
エントリーの数。
.sp
.B in_slow_mc
.\"O Number of multicast routing cache entries added for input traffic.
入力トラフィックに対して追加されたマルチキャストルーティング
キャッシュエントリーの数。
.sp
.B in_no_route
.\"O Number of input packets for which no routing table entry was found.
ルーティングテーブルエントリーが見つからなかった入力パケット数。
.sp
.B in_brd
.\"O Number of matched input broadcast packets.
マッチした入力ブロードキャストパケットの数。
.sp
.B in_martian_dst
.\"O Number of incoming martian destination packets.
流入した異質な (martian) 宛先パケットの数。
.sp
.B in_martian_src
.\"O Number of incoming martian source packets.
流入した異質な (martian) 送信元パケットの数。
.sp
.B out_hit
.\"O Number of route cache hits for outgoing packets. Deprecated since IP route
.\"O cache removal, therefore always zero.
送出パケットに対するルートキャッシュのヒット数。
IP ルートキャッシュが削除されて廃止されたため、常に 0 になる。
.sp
.B out_slow_tot
.\"O Number of routing cache entries added for output traffic.
出力トラフィックに対して追加されたルーティングキャッシュ
エントリー数。
.sp
.B out_slow_mc
.\"O Number of multicast routing cache entries added for output traffic.
出力トラフィックに対して追加されたマルチキャストルーティング
キャッシュエントリーの数。
.sp
.B gc_total
.\"O Total number of garbage collection runs. Deprecated since IP route cache
.\"O removal, therefore always zero.
ガベージコレクション実行の回数。
IP ルートキャッシュが削除されて廃止されたため、常に 0 になる。
.sp
.B gc_ignored
.\"O Number of ignored garbage collection runs due to minimum GC interval not
.\"O reached and routing cache not full. Deprecated since IP route cache removal,
.\"O therefore always zero.
最小ガベージコレクション間隔に達しておらず、
ルーティングキャッシュがいっぱいでなかったため、
無視されたガベージコレクション実行の回数。
IP ルートキャッシュが削除されて廃止されたため、常に 0 になる。
.sp
.B gc_goal_miss
.\"O Number of garbage collector goal misses. Deprecated since IP route cache
.\"O removal, therefore always zero.
ガベージコレクションのゴールに達しなかった回数。
IP ルートキャッシュが削除されて廃止されたため、常に 0 になる。
.sp
.B gc_dst_overflow
.\"O Number of destination cache overflows. Deprecated since IP route cache removal,
.\"O therefore always zero.
宛先キャッシュのオーバーフローの回数。
IP ルートキャッシュが削除されて廃止されたため、常に 0 になる。
.sp
.B in_hlist_search
.\"O Number of hash table list traversals for input traffic. Deprecated since IP
.\"O route cache removal, therefore always zero.
入力トラフィックに対するハッシュテーブルリストの巡回の回数。
IP ルートキャッシュが削除されて廃止されたため、常に 0 になる。
.sp
.B out_hlist_search
.\"O Number of hash table list traversals for output traffic. Deprecated since IP
.\"O route cache removal, therefore always zero.
出力トラフィックに対するハッシュテーブルリストの巡回の回数。
IP ルートキャッシュが削除されて廃止されたため、常に 0 になる。

.\"O .SH SEE ALSO
.SH 関連項目
.BR ip (8)
.br
.\"O .SH AUTHOR
.SH 著者
.\"O lnstat was written by Harald Welte <laforge@gnumonks.org>.
lnstat は Harald Welte <laforge@gnumonks.org> によって書かれた。
.PP
.\"O This manual page was written by Michael Prokop <mika@grml.org> for the Debian project (but may be used by others).
このマニュアルは Michael Prokop <mika@grml.org> によって、
Debian プロジェクトのために書かれた
(しかし、他のディストリビューションでも使えるだろう)。
