.\"
.\" Japanese Version Copyright (c) 2019 Yuichi SATO
.\"         all rights reserved.
.\" Translated Wed Jul 17 20:09:01 JST 2019
.\"         by Yuichi SATO <ysato444@ybb.ne.jp>
.\"
.TH RTACCT 8 "27 June, 2007"

.\"O .SH NAME
.SH 名前
.\"O nstat, rtacct - network statistics tools.
nstat, rtacct - ネットワーク統計ツール

.\"O .SH SYNOPSIS
.SH 書式
Usage: nstat [ -h?vVzrnasd:t:jp ] [ PATTERN [ PATTERN ] ]
.br
Usage: rtacct [ -h?vVzrnasd:t: ] [ ListOfRealms ]

.\"O .SH DESCRIPTION
.SH 説明
.\"O .B nstat
.\"O and
.\"O .B rtacct
.\"O are simple tools to monitor kernel snmp counters and network interface statistics.
.B nstat
と
.B rtacct
はカーネルの snmp カウンターとネットワークインタフェース統計をモニターする
簡単なツールである。

.\"O .SH OPTIONS
.SH オプション
.B \-h, \-\-help
.\"O Print help
ヘルプを表示する。
.TP
.B \-V, \-\-version
.\"O Print version
バージョンを表示する。
.TP
.B \-z, \-\-zeros
.\"O Dump zero counters too. By default they are not shown.
ゼロのカウンターもダンプする。
デフォルトでは表示されない。
.TP
.B \-r, \-\-reset
.\"O Reset history.
履歴をリセットする。
.TP
.B \-n, \-\-nooutput
.\"O Do not display anything, only update history.
何も表示せず、履歴の更新だけを行う。
.TP
.B \-a, \-\-ignore
.\"O Dump absolute values of counters. The default is to calculate increments since the previous use.
カウンターの絶対値をダンプする。
デフォルトでは、前回使用されたときからの増分が計算される。
.TP
.B \-s, \-\-noupdate
.\"O Do not update history, so that the next time you will see counters including values accumulated to the moment of this measurement too.
履歴を更新しない。
次回の表示では、今回の値を含めた累計が表示される。
.TP
.B \-j, \-\-json
.\"O Display results in JSON format.
JSON フォーマットで表示する。
.TP
.B \-p, \-\-pretty
.\"O When combined with
.\"O .BR \-\-json ,
.\"O pretty print the output.
.B \-\-json
と組み合わせて、綺麗に表示する。
.TP
.B \-d, \-\-scan <INTERVAL>
.\"O Run in daemon mode collecting statistics. <INTERVAL> is interval between measurements in seconds.
デーモンモードで統計を収集する。
<INTERVAL> は計測間隔で、 秒単位である。
.TP
.B \-t, \-\-interval <INTERVAL>
.\"O Time interval to average rates. Default value is 60 seconds.
平均値を計算する時間間隔。
デフォルトは 60 秒である。

.\"O .SH SEE ALSO
.SH 関連項目
lnstat(8)
