.\"
.\" Japanese Version Copyright (c) 2020 Yuichi SATO
.\"         all rights reserved.
.\" Translated Sat Apr  4 23:17:58 JST 2020
.\"         by Yuichi SATO <ysato444@ybb.ne.jp>
.\" Updated & Modified Fri Jan 15 01:17:36 JST 2021 by Yuichi SATO
.\"
.TH CHOOM 1 "April 2018" "util-linux" "User Commands"
.\"O .SH NAME
.SH 名前
.\"O choom \- display and adjust OOM-killer score.
choom \- OOM キラーのスコアーの表示と調整を行う
.\"O .SH SYNOPSIS
.SH 書式
.B choom
.B \-p
.I pid
.sp
.B choom
.B \-p
.I pid
.B \-n
.I number
.sp
.B choom
.B \-n
.I number
.B [\-\-]
.IR command\  [ argument ...]

.\"O .SH DESCRIPTION
.SH 説明
.\"O The \fBchoom\fP command displays and adjusts Out-Of-Memory killer score setting.
\fBchoom\fP コマンドは、Out-Of-Memory キラーのスコア設定の表示と調整を行う。

.\"O .SH OPTIONS
.SH オプション
.TP
.BR \-p ", " \-\-pid " \fIpid\fP"
.\"O Specifies process ID.
プロセス ID を指定する。
.TP
.BR \-n , " \-\-adjust " \fIvalue\fP
.\"O Specify the adjust score value.
調整するスコア値を指定する。
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
.\"O Display help text and exit.
ヘルプを表示して、終了する。
.TP
.BR \-V ", " \-\-version
.\"O Display version information and exit.
バージョン情報を表示して、終了する。
.\"O .SH NOTES
.SH 注意
.\"O Linux kernel uses the badness heuristic to select which process gets killed in
.\"O out of memory conditions.
Linux カーネルはメモリ不足 (out of memory) の状況で、
どのプロセスを kill するかを選択するために、不良 (badness) ヒューリスティックを使う。

.\"O The badness heuristic assigns a value to each candidate task ranging from 0
.\"O (never kill) to 1000 (always kill) to determine which process is targeted.  The
.\"O units are roughly a proportion along that range of allowed memory the process
.\"O may allocate from based on an estimation of its current memory and swap use.
.\"O For example, if a task is using all allowed memory, its badness score will be
.\"O 1000.  If it is using half of its allowed memory, its score will be 500.
不良ヒューリスティックは、どのプロセスを対象にするかを決定するために、
0 (決して kill されない) から 1000 (常に kill される) までの範囲で、
各候補のタスクに値を設定する。
現在のメモリとスワップ使用量の評価に基づいて、プロセスが確保するのに
許可されたメモリの範囲で、単位は大まかな割合に設定される。
例えば、タスクが全ての許可されたメモリを使っている場合、不良スコアは 1000 になる。
タスクが全ての許可されたメモリの半分を使っている場合、不良スコアは 500 になる。

.\"O There is an additional factor included in the badness score: the current memory
.\"O and swap usage is discounted by 3% for root processes.
不良スコアに含まれる追加の要素がある。
現在のメモリとスワップ使用量は、root プロセスでは 3% 差し引かれる。

.\"O The amount of "allowed" memory depends on the context in which the oom killer
.\"O was called.  If it is due to the memory assigned to the allocating task's cpuset
.\"O being exhausted, the allowed memory represents the set of mems assigned to that
.\"O cpuset.  If it is due to a mempolicy's node(s) being exhausted, the allowed
.\"O memory represents the set of mempolicy nodes.  If it is due to a memory
.\"O limit (or swap limit) being reached, the allowed memory is that configured
.\"O limit.  Finally, if it is due to the entire system being out of memory, the
.\"O allowed memory represents all allocatable resources.
「許可された」メモリの総量は、oom キラーが呼ばれるコンテキストに依存する。
確保されたタスクの CPU セットに割り当てられたメモリが使い果たされると、
許可されたメモリは、CPU セットに割り当てられたメモリを表すようになる。
メモリポリシー (mempolicy) のノードが使い果たされると、
許可されたメモリは、メモリポリシーノードのセットになる。
メモリ制限 (またはスワップ制限) に到達した場合、
許可されたメモリは、設定された制限になる。
最後に、全体システムがメモリ不足になると、許可されたメモリは、
全ての確保されたリソースを表すようになる。

.\"O The adjust score value is added to the badness score before it is used to
.\"O determine which task to kill.  Acceptable values range from -1000 to +1000.
.\"O This allows userspace to polarize the preference for oom killing either by
.\"O always preferring a certain task or completely disabling it.  The lowest
.\"O possible value, -1000, is equivalent to disabling oom killing entirely for that
.\"O task since it will always report a badness score of 0.
不良スコアがどのタスクを kill するかを決定するかに使われる前に、
調整スコア値が不良スコアに追加される。
受け入れられる値の範囲は、-1000 から +1000 である。
oom キラーが常にあるタスクを選ぶか、全く選ばないかのいずれかに、
ユーザ空間の指向を二極化できる。
利用可能な下限値 -1000 の場合、常に不良スコアを 0 にするので、
そのタスクについて oom キラーを完全に無効化する。

.\"O Setting an adjust score value of +500, for example, is roughly equivalent to
.\"O allowing the remainder of tasks sharing the same system, cpuset, mempolicy, or
.\"O memory controller resources to use at least 50% more memory.  A value of -500,
.\"O on the other hand, would be roughly equivalent to discounting 50% of the task's
.\"O allowed memory from being considered as scoring against the task.
調整スコアの値を +500 に設定されると、例えば、
同じシステム、CPU セット、メモリポリシー、メモリコントローラリソースを共有する
残りのタスクが、50% 以上のメモリを使うことを許可するのと大まかに同じである。
一方で、調整スコアの値を -500 に設定すると、
タスクのスコアとして考慮されたメモリを、50% 差し引くのと大まかに同じである。

.\"O .SH AUTHORS
.SH 著者
.nf
Karel Zak <kzak@redhat.com>
.fi
.\"O .SH SEE ALSO
.SH 関連項目
.BR proc (5)
.\"O .SH AVAILABILITY
.SH 入手方法
.\"O The \fBchoom\fP command is part of the util-linux package and is available from
.\"O .UR https://\:www.kernel.org\:/pub\:/linux\:/utils\:/util-linux/
.\"O Linux Kernel Archive
.\"O .UE .
\fBchoom\fP コマンドは util-linux パッケージの一部であり、
.UR https://\:www.kernel.org\:/pub\:/linux\:/utils\:/util-linux/
Linux Kernel Archive
.UE
から入手できる。
