.\" Copyright 1993 Rickard E. Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" May be distributed under the GNU General Public License
.\"
.\" Japanese Version Copyright (c) 2020 Yuichi SATO
.\"         all rights reserved.
.\" Translated Sun Apr  5 12:55:00 JST 2020
.\"         by Yuichi SATO <ysato444@ybb.ne.jp>
.\" Updated & Modified Tue Jan 19 20:30:48 JST 2021 by Yuichi SATO
.\"
.TH DMESG "1" "July 2012" "util-linux" "User Commands"
.\"O .SH NAME
.SH 名前
.\"O dmesg \- print or control the kernel ring buffer
dmesg \- カーネルリングバッファーの表示または制御を行う。
.\"O .SH SYNOPSIS
.SH 書式
.B dmesg
[options]
.sp
.B dmesg \-\-clear
.br
.BR "dmesg \-\-read\-clear " [options]
.br
.BI "dmesg \-\-console\-level " level
.br
.B dmesg \-\-console\-on
.br
.B dmesg \-\-console\-off
.\"O .SH DESCRIPTION
.SH 説明
.\"O .B dmesg
.\"O is used to examine or control the kernel ring buffer.
.B dmesg
はカーネルリングバッファーを調査または制御するために使われる。
.PP
.\"O The default action is to display all messages from the kernel ring buffer.
デフォルトのアクションは、カーネルリングバッファーから全てのメッセージを
表示する。
.\"O .SH OPTIONS
.SH オプション
.\"O The
.\"O .BR \-\-clear ,
.\"O .BR \-\-read\-clear ,
.\"O .BR \-\-console\-on ,
.\"O .BR \-\-console\-off ,
.\"O and
.\"O .B \-\-console\-level
.\"O options are mutually exclusive.
.BR \-\-clear ,
.BR \-\-read\-clear ,
.BR \-\-console\-on ,
.BR \-\-console\-off ,
.B \-\-console\-level
オプションは、どれか 1 つしか選択できない。
.IP "\fB\-C\fR, \fB\-\-clear\fR"
.\"O Clear the ring buffer.
リングバッファーをクリアする。
.IP "\fB\-c\fR, \fB\-\-read\-clear\fR"
.\"O Clear the ring buffer after first printing its contents.
最初に内容を表示した後、リングバッファーをクリアする。
.IP "\fB\-D\fR, \fB\-\-console\-off\fR"
.\"O Disable the printing of messages to the console.
コンソールへのメッセージの表示を無効化する。
.IP "\fB\-d\fR, \fB\-\-show\-delta\fR"
.\"O Display the timestamp and the time delta spent between messages.  If used
.\"O together with
.\"O .B \-\-notime
.\"O then only the time delta without the timestamp is printed.
タイムスタンプとメッセージ間で経過した時間差分を表示する。
.B \-\-notime
と一緒に使うと、タイムスタンプを表示せず、時間差分のみを表示する。
.IP "\fB\-E\fR, \fB\-\-console\-on\fR"
.\"O Enable printing messages to the console.
コンソールへのメッセージの表示を有効化する。
.IP "\fB\-e\fR, \fB\-\-reltime\fR"
.\"O Display the local time and the delta in human-readable format.  Be aware that
.\"O conversion to the local time could be inaccurate (see \fB\-T\fR for more
.\"O details).
ローカル時間と時間差分を人が読みやすい形式で表示する。
ローカル時間への変換は正確でない点に注意すること
(より詳細は \fB\-T\fR for を参照すること)。
.IP "\fB\-F\fR, \fB\-\-file \fIfile\fR"
.\"O Read the syslog messages from the given
.\"O .IR file .
.\"O .\"O Note that \fB\-F\fR does not support messages in kmsg format. The old syslog format is supported only.
syslog メッセージを指定された
.I file
から読み込む。
\fB\-F\fR は kmsg 形式のメッセージをサポートしていない点に注意すること。
昔ながらの syslog 形式のみをサポートしている。
.IP "\fB\-f\fR, \fB\-\-facility \fIlist\fR"
.\"O Restrict output to the given (comma-separated)
.\"O .I list
.\"O of facilities.  For example:
出力を指定した (カンマ区切りの) ファシリティの
.I list
に制限する。
例えば:
.PP
.RS 14
.B dmesg \-\-facility=daemon
.RE
.IP
.\"O will print messages from system daemons only.  For all supported facilities
.\"O see the
.\"O .B \-\-help
.\"O output.
は、システムデーモンからのメッセージのみを表示する。
全てのサポートされているファシリティは
.B \-\-help
の出力を参照すること。
.IP "\fB\-H\fR, \fB\-\-human\fR"
.\"O Enable human-readable output.  See also \fB\-\-color\fR, \fB\-\-reltime\fR
.\"O and \fB\-\-nopager\fR.
人が読みやすい出力を有効にする。
\fB\-\-color\fR, \fB\-\-reltime\fR, \fB\-\-nopager\fR も参照すること。
.IP "\fB\-k\fR, \fB\-\-kernel\fR"
.\"O Print kernel messages.
カーネルメッセージを表示する。
.IP "\fB\-L\fR, \fB\-\-color\fR[=\fIwhen\fR]"
.\"O Colorize the output.  The optional argument \fIwhen\fP
.\"O can be \fBauto\fR, \fBnever\fR or \fBalways\fR.  If the \fIwhen\fR argument is omitted,
.\"O it defaults to \fBauto\fR.  The colors can be disabled; for the current built-in default
.\"O see the \fB\-\-help\fR output.  See also the \fBCOLORS\fR section below.
出力をカラー表示する。
オプションの引き数 \fIwhen\fP は
\fBauto\fR, \fBnever\fR, \fBalways\fR のいずれかである。
\fIwhen\fR 引き数が省略された場合、デフォルトは \fBauto\fR である。
カラー表示は無効化できる。
現在の組み込みのデフォルトは、\fB\-\-help\fR の出力を参照すること。
下記の \fBカラー表示\fR のセクションも参照すること。
.IP  "\fB\-l\fR, \fB\-\-level \fIlist\fR"
.\"O Restrict output to the given (comma-separated)
.\"O .I list
.\"O of levels.  For example:
出力を指定した (カンマ区切りの) レベルの 
.I list
に制限する。
例えば:
.PP
.RS 14
.B dmesg \-\-level=err,warn
.RE
.IP
.\"O will print error and warning messages only.  For all supported levels see the
.\"O .B \-\-help
.\"O output.
はエラーと警告のメッセージのみを表示する。
サポートされる全てのレベルについては、
.B \-\-help
の出力を参照すること。
.IP "\fB\-n\fR, \fB\-\-console\-level \fIlevel\fR"
.\"O Set the
.\"O .I level
.\"O at which printing of messages is done to the console.  The
.\"O .I level
.\"O is a level number or abbreviation of the level name.  For all supported
.\"O levels see the
.\"O .B \-\-help
.\"O output.
コンソールに表示されるメッセージを
.I level
に設定する。
.I level
はレベル番号、またはレベル名の省略形である。
サポートされる全てのレベルについては、
.B \-\-help
の出力を参照すること。
.sp
.\"O For example,
.\"O .B \-n 1
.\"O or
.\"O .B \-n emerg
.\"O prevents all messages, except emergency (panic) messages, from appearing on
.\"O the console.  All levels of messages are still written to
.\"O .IR /proc/kmsg ,
.\"O so
.\"O .BR syslogd (8)
.\"O can still be used to control exactly where kernel messages appear.  When the
.\"O .B \-n
.\"O option is used,
.\"O .B dmesg
.\"O will
.\"O .I not
.\"O print or clear the kernel ring buffer.
例えば、
.B \-n 1
または
.B \-n emerg
は、コンソールに表示されるメッセージから、緊急 (パニック) メッセージ以外の
全てのメッセージを抑止する。
これを指定しても、全てのレベルのメッセージは
.IR /proc/kmsg
には書き出されるので、
.BR syslogd (8)
はカーネルメッセージが現れた場所を正確にコントロールできる。
.B \-n
オプションが使われると、
.B dmesg
はカーネルリングバッファーの表示を
.IR 行わず 、
クリアも
.IR 行わない 。
.IP "\fB\-\-noescape\fR"
.\"O The unprintable and potentially unsafe characters (e.g., broken multi-byte
.\"O sequences, terminal controlling chars, etc.) are escaped in format \\x<hex> for
.\"O security reason by default.  This option disables this feature at all. It's
.\"O usable for example for debugging purpose together with \fB\-\-raw\fR.  Be
.\"O careful and don't use it by default.
表示不能文字や潜在的に安全でない文字
(例えば、壊れたマルチバイトシーケンス、端末制御文字など) は、
デフォルトでは、セキュリティ上の理由から \\x<hex> という形式にエスケープされる。
このオプションは、その機能を無効にする。
このオプションを無効にするのは、たとえば、\fB\-\-raw\fR と一緒に使って、
デバッグをするときなどである。
注意して利用し、これをデフォルトとしないこと。
.IP "\fB\-P\fR, \fB\-\-nopager\fR"
.\"O Do not pipe output into a pager.  A pager is enabled by default for \fB\-\-human\fR output.
出力をページャーにパイプしない。
ページャーは \fB\-\-human\fR の出力ではデフォルトで有効になっている。
.IP "\fB\-p\fR, \fB\-\-force\-prefix\fR"
.\"O Add facility, level or timestamp information to each line of a multi-line message.
複数行のメッセージの各行に、ファシリティ、レベル、タイムスタンプの
情報を追加する。
.IP "\fB\-r\fR, \fB\-\-raw\fR"
.\"O Print the raw message buffer, i.e., do not strip the log-level prefixes, but
.\"O all unprintable characters are still escaped (see also \fB\-\-noescape\fR).
生 (raw) のメッセージバッファーを表示する。
つまり、ログレベルのプレフィックスを取り去らない。
ただし、すべての表示不能文字は、エスケープされる
(\fB\-\-noescape\fR も参照すること)。

.\"O Note that the real raw format depends on the method how
.\"O .BR dmesg (1)
.\"O reads kernel messages.  The /dev/kmsg device uses a different format than
.\"O .BR syslog (2).
本当の raw 形式は、
.BR dmesg (1)
がカーネルメッセージを読む方法に依存する点に注意すること。
/dev/kmsg デバイスは
.BR syslog (2)
と異なる形式を使う。
.\"O For backward compatibility,
.\"O .BR dmesg (1)
.\"O returns data always in the
.\"O .BR syslog (2)
.\"O format.  It is possible to read the real raw data from /dev/kmsg by, for example,
.\"O the command 'dd if=/dev/kmsg iflag=nonblock'.
後方互換のため、
.BR dmesg (1)
は常に
.BR syslog (2)
形式でデータを返す。
例えば、コマンド 'dd if=/dev/kmsg iflag=nonblock' で、
本当の生データを /dev/kmsg から読むことができる。
.IP "\fB\-S\fR, \fB\-\-syslog\fR"
.\"O Force \fBdmesg\fR to use the
.\"O .BR syslog (2)
.\"O kernel interface to read kernel messages.  The default is to use /dev/kmsg rather
.\"O than
.\"O .BR syslog (2)
.\"O since kernel 3.5.0.
\fBdmesg\fR がカーネルメッセージを読むのに、
.BR syslog (2)
カーネルインタフェースを使うことを強制する。
カーネル 3.5.0 以降では、デフォルトで
.BR syslog (2)
ではなく、/dev/kmsg を使う。
.IP "\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-buffer\-size \fIsize\fR"
.\"O Use a buffer of
.\"O .I size
.\"O to query the kernel ring buffer.  This is 16392 by default.  (The default
.\"O kernel syslog buffer size was 4096 at first, 8192 since 1.3.54, 16384 since
.\"O 2.1.113.)  If you have set the kernel buffer to be larger than the default,
.\"O then this option can be used to view the entire buffer.
カーネルリングバッファーを取得するためのバッファーサイズとして
.I size
を使う。
これはデフォルトで 16392 である。
(デフォルトのカーネル syslog バッファーサイズは、最初 4096 であった。
1.3.54 以降では 8192 であり、2.1.113 以降では 16384 である。)
カーネルバッファーをデフォルトより大きくすることで、
このオプションでバッファ全体を見るのに使うことができる。
.IP "\fB\-T\fR, \fB\-\-ctime\fR"
.\"O Print human-readable timestamps.
人間が読みやすい形式のタイプスタンプで表示する。
.IP
.\"O .B Be aware that the timestamp could be inaccurate!
.B このタイムスタンプは正確でない可能性があるので注意すること!
.\"O The
.\"O .B time
.\"O source used for the logs is
.\"O .B not updated after
.\"O system
.\"O .BR SUSPEND / RESUME .
ログで使われる
.B 時刻
の情報源は、システムの
.BR SUSPEND / RESUME
の以降では
.B 更新されない。
.\"O Timestamps are adjusted according to current delta between boottime and monotonic
.\"O clocks, this works only for messages printed after last resume.
タイムスタンプは、ブート時刻と単調増加する (monotonic) クロックとの
現在の差分を元に調整される。
このオプションは、最後にレジュームされた後のメッセージにしか、
有効でない。
.IP "\fB\-t\fR, \fB\-\-notime\fR"
.\"O Do not print kernel's timestamps.
カーネルのタイムスタンプを表示しない。
.IP "\fB\-\-time\-format\fR \fIformat\fR"
.\"O Print timestamps using the given \fIformat\fR, which can be
.\"O .BR ctime ,
.\"O .BR reltime ,
.\"O .B delta
.\"O or
.\"O .BR iso .
タイムスタンプを指定された \fIformat\fR で表示する。
 \fIformat\fR は
.BR ctime ,
.BR reltime ,
.BR delta ,
.B iso
のいずれかある。
最初の 3 つの形式は、時間形式固有のオプションのエイリアスである。
.\"O The
.\"O .B iso
.\"O format is a
.\"O .B dmesg
.\"O implementation of the ISO-8601 timestamp format.  The purpose of this format is
.\"O to make the comparing of timestamps between two systems, and any other parsing,
.\"O easy.  The definition of the \fBiso\fR timestamp is:
.\"O YYYY-MM-DD<T>HH:MM:SS,<microseconds><-+><timezone offset from UTC>.
.B iso
形式は ISO-8601 タイムスタンプ形式の
.B dmesg
での実装である。
この形式の目的は、2 つのシステムのタイムスタンプの比較と、
その他の解析をしやすくすることである。
\fBiso\fR タイムスタンプの定義は、以下の通りである:
YYYY-MM-DD<T>HH:MM:SS,<microseconds><-+><UTC からのタイムゾーンオフセット>。
.IP
.\"O The
.\"O .B iso
.\"O format has the same issue as
.\"O .BR ctime :
.\"O the time may be inaccurate when a system is suspended and resumed.
.B iso
形式は
.B ctime
と同じ問題がある:
システムがサスペンドまたはレジュームすると、時間が正確でなくなる
可能性がある。
.TP
.BR \-u , " \-\-userspace"
.\"O Print userspace messages.
ユーザー空間のメッセージを表示する。
.TP
.BR \-w , " \-\-follow"
.\"O Wait for new messages.  This feature is supported only on systems with
.\"O a readable /dev/kmsg (since kernel 3.5.0).
新しいメッセージを待つ。
この機能は、読み込み可能な /dev/kmsg (カーネル 3.5.0 以降) を持つシステムでのみサポートされる。
.TP
.BR \-W , " \-\-follow-new"
.\"O Wait and print only new messages.
出力を待って、新しいメッセージのみを表示する。
.TP
.BR \-x , " \-\-decode"
.\"O Decode facility and level (priority) numbers to human-readable prefixes.
ファシリティとレベル (優先度) の数値を、人が読みやすいプレフィックスにデコードする。
.TP
.BR \-V , " \-\-version"
.\"O Display version information and exit.
バージョン情報を表示して、終了する。
.TP
.BR \-h , " \-\-help"
.\"O Display help text and exit.
ヘルプを表示して、終了する。
.\"O .SH COLORS
.SH カラー表示
.\"O Implicit coloring can be disabled by an empty file \fI/etc/terminal-colors.d/dmesg.disable\fR.
暗黙のカラー表示は、空ファイル \fI/etc/terminal-colors.d/dmesg.disable\fR で
無効化できる。
.\"O See
.\"O .BR terminal-colors.d (5)
.\"O for more details about colorization configuration.
カラー表示設定のより詳細は、
.BR terminal-colors.d (5)
を参照すること。
.PP
.\"O The logical color names supported by
.\"O .B dmesg
.\"O are:
.B dmesg
でサポートされる論理的なカラー名は以下の通り:
.TP
.B subsys
.\"O The message sub-system prefix (e.g., "ACPI:").
メッセージのサブシステムプレフィックス (例えば、"ACPI:")。
.TP
.B time
.\"O The message timestamp.
メッセージのタイムスタンプ。
.TP
.B timebreak
.\"O The message timestamp in short ctime format in \fB\-\-reltime\fR
.\"O or \fB\-\-human\fR output.
\fB\-\-reltime\fR または \fB\-\-human\fR での出力における、
短い ctime 形式のメッセージのタイムスタンプ。
.TP
.B alert
.\"O The text of the message with the alert log priority.
アラートログ優先度のメッセージの文字列。
.TP
.B crit
.\"O The text of the message with the critical log priority.
致命的ログ優先度のメッセージの文字列。
.TP
.B err
.\"O The text of the message with the error log priority.
エラーログ優先度のメッセージの文字列。
.TP
.B warn
.\"O The text of the message with the warning log priority.
警告ログ優先度のメッセージの文字列。
.TP
.B segfault
.\"O The text of the message that inform about segmentation fault.
セグメンテーションフォールトを知らせるメッセージの文字列。
.\"O .SH EXIT STATUS
.SH 返り値
.\"O .B dmesg
.\"O can fail reporting permission denied error.  This is usually caused by
.\"O .B dmesg_restrict
.\"O kernel setting, please see
.\"O .BR syslog (2)
.\"O for more details.
.B dmesg
は権限不足によるエラーで、表示に失敗する可能性がある。
これは多くの場合、
.B dmesg_restrict
カーネル設定で引き起こされる。
より詳細は
.BR syslog (2)
を参照してほしい。
.\"O .SH AUTHORS
.SH 著者
.MT kzak@redhat.com
Karel Zak
.ME

.\"O .B dmesg
.\"O was originally written by
.\"O .MT tytso@athena.mit.edu
.\"O Theodore Ts'o
.\"O .ME
.B dmesg
は元々
.MT tytso@athena.mit.edu
Theodore Ts'o
.ME
によって書かれた。
.\"O .SH SEE ALSO
.SH 関連項目
.BR terminal-colors.d (5),
.BR syslogd (8)
.\"O .SH AVAILABILITY
.SH 入手方法
.\"O The dmesg command is part of the util-linux package and is available from
.\"O .UR https://\:www.kernel.org\:/pub\:/linux\:/utils\:/util-linux/
.\"O Linux Kernel Archive
.\"O .UE .
dmesg コマンドは util-linux パッケージの一部であり、
.UR https://\:www.kernel.org\:/pub\:/linux\:/utils\:/util-linux/
Linux Kernel Archive
.UE
から入手できる。
