.\" Copyright (c) 1989, 1990, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	@(#)hexdump.1	8.2 (Berkeley) 4/18/94
.\"
.\" Japanese Version Copyright (c) 2001-2021 Yuichi SATO
.\"         all rights reserved.
.\" Translated Tue 11 Jan 1994
.\"         by NetBSD jman proj. <jman@spa.is.uec.ac.jp>
.\" Updated Sun Jan 14 00:49:38 JST 2001
.\"         by Yuichi SATO <sato@complex.eng.hokudai.ac.jp>
.\" Updated Sun Mar 24 11:54:42 JST 2002
.\"         by Yuichi SATO <ysato@h4.dion.ne.jp>
.\" Updated & Modified Wed Jul 24 18:51:47 JST 2019
.\"         by Yuichi SATO <ysato444@ybb.ne.jp>
.\" Updated & Modified Wed Jan 20 20:54:10 JST 2021 by Yuichi SATO
.\"
.TH HEXDUMP "1" "April 2013" "util-linux" "User Commands"
.\"O .SH NAME
.SH 名前
.\"O hexdump \- display file contents in hexadecimal, decimal, octal, or ascii
hexdump \- ファイルの内容を 16 進, 10 進, 8 進, ASCII で表示する
.\"O .SH SYNOPSIS
.SH 書式
.B hexdump
.RI [options] " file" ...
.\"O .SH DESCRIPTION
.SH 説明
.\"O The
.\"O .B hexdump
.\"O utility is a filter which displays the specified files, or
.\"O standard input if no files are specified, in a user-specified
.\"O format.
.B hexdump
ユーティリティは、指定したファイルを
ユーザーが指定したフォーマットで表示するフィルタである。
ファイルが指定されていない場合は、標準入力を読み込んでフォーマットする。
.\"O .SH OPTIONS
.SH オプション
.\"O Below, the \fIlength\fR and \fIoffset\fR arguments may be followed by the multiplicative
.\"O suffixes KiB (=1024), MiB (=1024*1024), and so on for GiB, TiB, PiB, EiB, ZiB and YiB
.\"O (the "iB" is optional, e.g., "K" has the same meaning as "KiB"), or the suffixes
.\"O KB (=1000), MB (=1000*1000), and so on for GB, TB, PB, EB, ZB and YB.
以下の \fIlength\fR と \fIoffset\fR 引き数の後ろに倍数の拡張子
KiB (=1024), MiB (=1024*1024), GiB, TiB, PiB, EiB, ZiB, YiB を
付けることができる
("iB" はオプションであり、つまり "K" は "KiB" と同じ意味である)。
また、拡張子
KB (=1000), MB (=1000*1000), GB, TB, PB, EB, ZB, YB
を付けることもできる。
.TP
\fB\-b\fR, \fB\-\-one\-byte\-octal\fR
.\"O \fIOne-byte octal display\fR.  Display the input offset in hexadecimal,
.\"O followed by sixteen space-separated, three-column, zero-filled bytes of input
.\"O data, in octal, per line.
\fI1 バイト単位の 8 進数表示\fR。
入力オフセットを 16 進数で表示し、
その後に、入力データ 1 バイトずつを
0 で字詰めした 3 桁の 8 進数で表現し、
それを 1 行当たり 16 個、空白で区切って表示する。
.TP
\fB\-c\fR, \fB\-\-one\-byte\-char\fR
.\"O \fIOne-byte character display\fR.  Display the input offset in hexadecimal,
.\"O followed by sixteen space-separated, three-column, space-filled characters of
.\"O input data per line.
\fI1 バイト単位のキャラクタ表示\fR。
入力オフセットを 16 進数で表示し、
その後に、入力データのキャラクタを
空白で字詰めした 3 桁 (の ASCII 文字) で表現し、
それを 1 行当たり 16 個、空白で区切って表示する。
.TP
\fB\-C\fR, \fB\-\-canonical\fR
.\"O \fICanonical hex+ASCII display\fR.  Display the input offset in hexadecimal,
.\"O followed by sixteen space-separated, two-column, hexadecimal bytes, followed
.\"O by the same sixteen bytes in
.\"O .B %_p
.\"O format enclosed in
.\"O .RB ' | '
.\"O characters.
\fI標準的な 16進数 + ASCII での表示\fR。
入力オフセットを 16 進数で表示し、
その後に、入力データのキャラクタを 2 桁の 16 進数で表現し、
それを 1 行当たり 16 個、空白で区切って表示する。
その後に、
.RB ' | '
で囲まれた中に同じ 16 バイトを
.B %_p
フォーマットで表示する。
.\"O Invoking the program as
.\"O .B hd
.\"O implies this option.
このプログラムを
.B hd
として呼び出した場合、このオプションが暗黙の内に指定される。
.TP
\fB\-d\fR, \fB\-\-two\-bytes\-decimal\fR
.\"O \fITwo-byte decimal display\fR.  Display the input offset in hexadecimal,
.\"O followed by eight space-separated, five-column, zero-filled, two-byte units
.\"O of input data, in unsigned decimal, per line.
\fI2 バイト単位の 10 進数表示\fR。
入力オフセットを 16 進数で表示し、
その後に、入力データ 2 バイト単位を
0 で字詰めした 5 桁の符号なし 10 進数で表現し、
それを 1 行当たり 8 個、空白で区切って表示する。
.TP
\fB\-e\fR, \fB\-\-format\fR \fIformat_string\fR
.\"O Specify a format string to be used for displaying data.
データを表示するために使われるフォーマット文字列を指定する。
.TP
\fB\-f\fR, \fB\-\-format\-file\fR \fIfile\fR
.\"O Specify a file that contains one or more newline-separated format strings.
.\"O Empty lines and lines whose first non-blank character is a hash mark (\&#)
.\"O are ignored.
1 個以上のフォーマット文字列 (改行で区切る) の書かれたファイルを指定する。
空行、または空白を除いた最初の文字がハッシュマーク
(\&#)
である行は無視される。
.TP
\fB\-L\fR, \fB\-\-color\fR[=\fIwhen\fR]
.\"O Accept color units for the output.  The optional argument \fIwhen\fP
.\"O can be \fBauto\fR, \fBnever\fR or \fBalways\fR.  If the \fIwhen\fR argument is omitted,
.\"O it defaults to \fBauto\fR.  The colors can be disabled; for the current built-in default
.\"O see the \fB\-\-help\fR output.  See also the \fBColors\fR subsection and
.\"O the \fBCOLORS\fR section below.
出力でのカラー設定を行う。
オプションの引き数 \fIwhen\fP は、
\fBauto\fR, \fBnever\fR, \fBalways\fR のいずれかである。
\fIwhen\fR 引き数を省略した場合、デフォルトは \fBauto\fR である。
カラー表示を無効化することもできる。
現在の組み込みのデフォルトは \fB\-\-help\fR の出力を参照すること。
以下の\fB「カラー表示」\fRサブセクションと\fB「カラー表示」\fRセクションを
参照すること。
.TP
\fB\-n\fR, \fB\-\-length\fR \fIlength\fR
.\"O Interpret only
.\"O .I length
.\"O bytes of input.
入力の
.I length
バイト分だけを処理する。
.TP
\fB\-o\fR, \fB\-\-two\-bytes\-octal\fR
.\"O \fITwo-byte octal display\fR.  Display the input offset in hexadecimal,
.\"O followed by eight space-separated, six-column, zero-filled, two-byte
.\"O quantities of input data, in octal, per line.
\fI2 バイト単位の 8 進数表示\fR。
入力オフセットを 16 進数で表示し、
その後に、入力 2 バイト単位を
0 で字詰めした 6 桁の 8 進数で表現し、
それを 1 行当たり 8 個、空白で区切って表示する。
.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-skip\fR \fIoffset\fR
.\"O Skip
.\"O .I offset
.\"O bytes from the beginning of the input.
入力の先頭から
.I offset
バイトを読み飛ばす。
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-no\-squeezing\fR
.\"O The
.\"O .B \-v
.\"O option causes
.\"O .B hexdump
.\"O to display all input data.  Without the
.\"O .B \-v
.\"O option, any number of groups of output lines which would be identical to the
.\"O immediately preceding group of output lines (except for the input offsets),
.\"O are replaced with a line comprised of a single asterisk.
.B \-v
オプションを指定すると、
.B hexdump
に対して全ての入力データを表示させる。
.B \-v
オプションを指定しない場合、
直前の出力行と同じ内容の行 (ただし、入力オフセットは除く) は、
何行であっても、
1 個のアスタリスクが書かれた行で置き換えられる。
.TP
\fB\-x\fR, \fB\-\-two\-bytes\-hex\fR
.\"O \fITwo-byte hexadecimal display\fR.  Display the input offset in hexadecimal,
.\"O followed by eight space-separated, four-column, zero-filled, two-byte
.\"O quantities of input data, in hexadecimal, per line.
\fI2 バイト単位の 16 進数表示\fR。
入力オフセットが 16 進数で表示し、
その後に、入力 2 バイト単位を
0 で字詰めした 4 桁の 16 進数で表現し、
それを 1 行当たり 8 個、空白で区切って表示する。
.TP
.BR \-V , " \-\-version"
.\"O Display version information and exit.
バージョン情報を表示して、終了する。
.TP
.BR \-h , " \-\-help"
.\"O Display help text and exit.
ヘルプを表示して、終了する。
.PP
.\"O For each input file,
.\"O .B hexdump
.\"O sequentially copies the input to standard output, transforming the data
.\"O according to the format strings specified by the
.\"O .B \-e
.\"O and
.\"O .B \-f
.\"O options, in the order that they were specified.
各入力ファイルに対して、
.B hexdump
は、入力ファイルが指定された順番で、
.B \-e
や
.B \-f
オプションで指定されたフォーマット文字列に基づいて変換しながら
続けて標準出力に書き出していく。
.\"O .SH FORMATS
.SH フォーマット
.\"O A format string contains any number of format units, separated by whitespace.
.\"O A format unit contains up to three items: an iteration count, a byte count,
.\"O and a format.
フォーマット文字列は、空白で区切られた任意の個数の
フォーマット単位を含んでいる。
フォーマット単位は最大 3 個の要素、つまり、
繰り返し回数・バイト数・フォーマットを含んでいる。
.PP
.\"O The iteration count is an optional positive integer, which defaults to one.
.\"O Each format is applied iteration count times.
繰り返し回数は、オプションとして指定される正の整数である。
デフォルトは 1 である。
各フォーマットは繰り返し回数だけ適用される。
.PP
.\"O The byte count is an optional positive integer.  If specified it defines the
.\"O number of bytes to be interpreted by each iteration of the format.
バイト数は、オプションとして指定される正の整数である。
これが指定された場合、
1 つのフォーマットで処理されるバイト数を示す。
.PP
.\"O If an iteration count and/or a byte count is specified, a single slash must
.\"O be placed after the iteration count and/or before the byte count to
.\"O disambiguate them.  Any whitespace before or after the slash is ignored.
繰り返し回数とバイト数 (の両方、もしくはどちらか一方) が指定された場合、
どちらの数字かを区別するために、
繰り返し回数の後とバイト数の前にスラッシュを 1 個置かなければならない。
スラッシュの前後の空白は無視される。
.PP
.\"O The format is required and must be surrounded by double quote (" ") marks.
.\"O It is interpreted as a fprintf-style format string (see
.\"O .BR fprintf (3),
.\"O with the following exceptions:
フォーマットは必須で、ダブルクォートマーク (" ") で囲まなければならない。
このフォーマットは、fprintf 形式のフォーマット文字列
.BR fprintf (3),
を参照) として解釈されるが、
以下のような例外がある:
.TP
1.
.\"O An asterisk (*) may not be used as a field width or precision.
フィールドの幅や精度としてアスタリスク (*) を使えない。
.TP
2.
.\"O A byte count or field precision
.\"O .I is
.\"O required for each
.\"O .B s
.\"O conversion character (unlike the
.\"O .BR fprintf (3)
.\"O default which prints the entire string if the precision is unspecified).
個々の変換文字
.B s
について、バイト数やフィールド精度が必須である
(精度が指定されていない場合に全ての文字列を表示する
.BR fprintf (3)
のデフォルトとは異なる)。
.TP
3.
.\"O The conversion characters
.\"O .BR h , \ l , \ n , \ p ,
.\"O .RB  and \ q
.\"O are not supported.
変換文字
.BR h , \ l , \ n , \ p , \ q
がサポートされていない。
.TP
4.
.\"O The single character escape sequences described in the C standard are
.\"O supported:
C 言語の標準規格で記述されている
1 文字のエスケープシーケンスがサポートされている:
.PP
.RS 13
.PD 0
.TP 21
NULL
\e0
.TP
.\"O <alert character>
<アラート文字>
\ea
.TP
.\"O <backspace>
<バックスペース>
\eb
.TP
.\"O <form-feed>
<フォームフィード>
\ef
.TP
.\"O <newline>
<改行>
\en
.TP
.\"O <carriage return>
<復帰>
\er
.TP
.\"O <tab>
<タブ>
\et
.TP
.\"O <vertical tab>
<垂直タブ>
\ev
.PD
.RE
.\"O .SS Conversion strings
.SS 変換文字列
.\"O The
.\"O .B hexdump
.\"O utility also supports the following additional conversion strings.
.B hexdump
ユーティリティは、他にも以下の変換文字列をサポートする:
.TP
.B \&_a[dox]
.\"O Display the input offset, cumulative across input files, of the next byte to
.\"O be displayed.  The appended characters
.\"O .BR d ,
.\"O .BR o ,
.\"O and
.\"O .B x
.\"O specify the display base as decimal, octal or hexadecimal respectively.
次に表示されるバイトのオフセット
(複数の入力ファイルで通算した値) を表示する。
文字
.BR d ,
.BR o ,
.B x
を後ろに付加すると、表示の際の基数がそれぞれ 10, 8, 16 進数に指定される。
.TP
.B \&_A[dox]
.\"O Identical to the
.\"O .B \&_a
.\"O conversion string except that it is only performed once, when all of the
.\"O input data has been processed.
変換文字列
.B \&_a
とほぼ同じ。
ただし、この変換は全ての入力データが処理された後で 1 回だけ実行される。
.TP
.B \&_c
.\"O Output characters in the default character set.  Non-printing characters are
.\"O displayed in three-character, zero-padded octal, except for those
.\"O representable by standard escape notation (see above), which are displayed as
.\"O two-character strings.
デフォルト文字セットの文字で出力する。
表示不能な文字は、0 で字詰めした 3 桁の 8 進数で表示される。
ただし、標準エスケープ表記で表現される文字 (上記を参照) は、
その 2 文字の文字列で表示される。
.TP
.B \&_p
.\"O Output characters in the default character set.  Non-printing characters are
.\"O displayed as a single
.\"O .RB ' \&. '.
デフォルト文字セットの文字で出力する。
表示不能な文字は、1 個の
.RB ' \&. '
として表示される。
.TP
.B \&_u
.\"O Output US ASCII characters, with the exception that control characters are
.\"O displayed using the following, lower-case, names.  Characters greater than
.\"O 0xff, hexadecimal, are displayed as hexadecimal strings.
US ASCII 文字で出力する。
ただし、制御文字は以下のような小文字の名前を使って表示される。
16 進数で 0xff より大きい文字は、
16 進数の文字列として表示される。
.RS 10
.TS
tab(|);
l l l l l l.
000 nul|001 soh|002 stx|003 etx|004 eot|005 enq
006 ack|007 bel|008 bs|009 ht|00A lf|00B vt
00C ff|00D cr|00E so|00F si|010 dle|011 dc1
012 dc2|013 dc3|014 dc4|015 nak|016 syn|017 etb
018 can|019 em|01A sub|01B esc|01C fs|01D gs
01E rs|01F us|0FF del
.TE
.RE
.\"O .SS Colors
.SS カラー表示
.\"O When put at the end of a format specifier, hexdump highlights the
.\"O respective string with the color specified.  Conditions, if present, are
.\"O evaluated prior to highlighting.
フォーマット指定の最後にカラー指定をすることで、
hexdump は対応する文字列をハイライトすることができる。
条件が存在する場合、ハイライトする前に評価される。
.PP
.B \&_L[color_unit_1,\:color_unit_2,\:...,\:color_unit_n]
.PP
.\"O The full syntax of a color unit is as follows:
カラー指定の単位の完全な書式は以下のとおりである:
.PP
.B [!]COLOR\:[:VALUE]\:[@OFFSET_START[-END]]
.TP
.B !
.\"O Negate the condition.  Please note that it only makes sense to negate a
.\"O unit if both a value/\:string and an offset are specified.  In that case
.\"O the respective output string will be highlighted if and only if the
.\"O value/\:string does not match the one at the offset.
条件を否定する。
値/\:文字列とオフセットの両方が指定されている場合にのみ、
否定が意味を持つ点に注意してほしい。
この場合、そのオフセットにおいて、対応する出力文字列が、
指定された値/\:文字列でない場合にのみ、ハイライトされる。
.TP
.B COLOR
.\"O One of the 8 basic shell colors.
シェルで使われる 8 色のうちの 1 つ。
.TP
.B VALUE
.\"O A value to be matched specified in hexadecimal, or octal base, or as a
.\"O string.  Please note that the usual C escape sequences are not
.\"O interpreted by hexdump inside the color_units.
指定した 16 進数、8 進数、文字列の値にマッチさせる。
hexdump は色指定単位のなかでは、通常の C 言語のエスケープシーケンスを
解釈しない点に注意してほしい。
.TP
.B OFFSET
.\"O An offset or an offset range at which to check for a match.  Please note
.\"O that lone OFFSET_START uses the same value as END offset.
マッチするかをチェックするオフセットまたはオフセットの範囲。
OFFSET_START だけを指定すると、END オフセットは同じ値とされる点に
注意してほしい。
.\"O .SS Counters
.SS カウンター
.\"O The default and supported byte counts for the conversion characters
.\"O are as follows:
変換文字列で使われるデフォルトのバイト数とサポートされるバイト数は、
以下の通りである。
.TP
.BR \&%_c , \ \&%_p , \ \&%_u , \ \&%c
.\"O One byte counts only.
1 バイトのみ。
.TP
.BR \&%d , \ \&%i , \ \&%o , \ \&%u , \ \&%X , \ \&%x
.\"O Four byte default, one, two and four byte counts supported.
4 バイトがデフォルト。1, 2, 4 バイトがサポートされている。
.TP
.BR \&%E , \ \&%e , \ \&%f , \ \&%G , \ \&%g
.\"O Eight byte default, four byte counts supported.
8 バイトがデフォルト。4 バイトがサポートされている。
.PP
.\"O The amount of data interpreted by each format string is the sum of the data
.\"O required by each format unit, which is the iteration count times the byte
.\"O count, or the iteration count times the number of bytes required by the
.\"O format if the byte count is not specified.
各フォーマット文字列によって処理されるデータの量は、
各フォーマット単位で必要とされるデータの合計である。
この合計は (繰り返し回数)×(バイト数) である。
また、バイト数が指定されていない場合は、
(繰り返し回数)×(フォーマットが必要としているバイト数) である。
.PP
.\"O The input is manipulated in
.\"O .IR blocks ,
.\"O where a block is defined as the largest amount of data specified by any
.\"O format string.  Format strings interpreting less than an input block's worth
.\"O of data, whose last format unit both interprets some number of bytes and does
.\"O not have a specified iteration count, have the iteration count incremented
.\"O until the entire input block has been processed or there is not enough data
.\"O remaining in the block to satisfy the format string.
入力は\fIブロック\fRごとに操作される。
ブロックは、フォーマット文字列で指定される
データの塊のうちで最大のもの、と定義される。
入力ブロックのデータより少ないバイト数しか処理していない
フォーマット文字列で、その中の最後のフォーマット単位で数バイトを処理し、
かつ繰り返し回数が指定されていない場合、
入力ブロック全体が処理されるか、
フォーマット文字列に合致するデータがブロックになくなるまで、
繰り返し回数を増加させる。
.PP
.\"O If, either as a result of user specification or
.\"O 
.\"O modifying the iteration count as described above, an iteration count is
.\"O greater than one, no trailing whitespace characters are output during the
.\"O last iteration.
ユーザーの指定、または
.B hexdump
が上で説明したように繰り返し回数を変更した結果、
繰り返し回数が 2 回以上になった場合、
最後の繰り返しにおける末尾の空白は出力されない。
.PP
.\"O It is an error to specify a byte count as well as multiple conversion
.\"O characters or strings unless all but one of the conversion characters or
.\"O strings is
.\"O .B \&_a
.\"O or
.\"O .BR \&_A .
バイト数を複数の変換文字と共に指定すると、
1 つを除いた全ての変換文字が
.B \&_a
または
.B \&_A
である場合以外は、エラーになる。
.PP
.\"O If, as a result of the specification of the
.\"O .B \-n
.\"O option or end-of-file being reached, input data only partially satisfies a
.\"O format string, the input block is zero-padded sufficiently to display all
.\"O available data (i.e., any format units overlapping the end of data will
.\"O display some number of the zero bytes).
.B \-n
オプションで指定したバイト数分、またはファイル終端に達したときに、
入力データがフォーマット文字列の一部分にしか満たさない場合、
有効なデータを全て表示するために、入力ブロックには適切な数の 0 が補われる
(すなわち、データの終端にまたがっているフォーマット単位は、
何個かの 0 のバイトを表示する)。
.PP
.\"O Further output by such format strings is replaced by an equivalent number of
.\"O spaces.  An equivalent number of spaces is defined as the number of spaces
.\"O output by an
.\"O .B s
.\"O conversion character with the same field width and precision as the original
.\"O conversion character or conversion string but with any
.\"O .RB ' \&+ ',
.\"O \' \',
.\"O .RB ' \&# '
.\"O conversion flag characters removed, and referencing a NULL string.
このようなフォーマット文字列によるさらなる出力は、
等数の空白で置き換えられる。
等数の空白とは、元々の変換文字とフィールド幅と精度は同じで、
変換フラグ文字
.RB ' \&+ ',
\' \',
.RB ' \&# '
を取り除いた
.B s
変換文字が NULL 文字列を参照した場合に出力される数の空白である。
.PP
.\"O If no format strings are specified, the default display is very similar to
.\"O the \fB\-x\fR output format (the \fB\-x\fR option causes more space to be
.\"O used between format units than in the default output).
フォーマット文字列が指定されない場合、
デフォルトの表示は　\fB\-x\fR の出力フォーマットと同様である。
(\fB\-x\fR オプションはデフォルト出力より出力単位の間のスペースが大きい)。
.\"O .SH EXIT STATUS
.SH 返り値
.\"O .B hexdump
.\"O exits 0 on success and >0 if an error occurred.
.B hexdump
は成功すると 0 を返して終了する。
エラーが起こった場合は、1 以上を返して終了する。
.\"O .SH CONFORMING TO
.SH 準拠
.\"O The
.\"O .B hexdump
.\"O utility is expected to be IEEE Std 1003.2 ("POSIX.2") compatible.
.B hexdump
ユーティリティは
IEEE Std 1003.2 ("POSIX.2") 
に適合しているはずである。
.\"O .SH EXAMPLES
.SH 例
.\"O Display the input in perusal format:
入力を perusal (詳しく閲覧する) フォーマットで表示する:
.nf
   "%06.6_ao "  12/1 "%3_u "
   "\et\et" "%_p "
   "\en"
.fi
.PP
.\"O Implement the \-x option:
\-x オプションを実装する:
.nf
   "%07.7_Ax\en"
   "%07.7_ax  " 8/2 "%04x " "\en"
.fi
.PP
.\"O MBR Boot Signature example: Highlight the addresses cyan and the bytes at
.\"O offsets 510 and 511 green if their value is 0xAA55, red otherwise.
MBR ブートシグネチャの例: アドレスをシアン、バイトオフセット
510 と 511 が値 0xAA55 の場合は緑、その他の場合は赤でハイライトする。
.nf
   "%07.7_Ax_L[cyan]\en"
   "%07.7_ax_L[cyan]  " 8/2 "   %04x_L[green:0xAA55@510-511,!red:0xAA55@510-511] " "\en"
.fi
.\"O .SH COLORS
.SH カラー表示
.\"O Implicit coloring can be disabled by an empty file \fI/etc/terminal-colors.d/hexdump.disable\fR.
空ファイル \fI/etc/terminal-colors.d/hexdump.disable\fR を置くことで、
暗黙のカラー表示を無効化できる。

.\"O See
.\"O .BR terminal-colors.d (5)
.\"O for more details about colorization configuration.
カラー設定の詳細は
.BR terminal-colors.d (5)
を参照すること。
.\"O .SH AVAILABILITY
.SH 入手方法
.\"O The hexdump command is part of the util-linux package and is available from
.\"O .UR https://\:www.kernel.org\:/pub\:/linux\:/utils\:/util-linux/
.\"O Linux Kernel Archive
.\"O .UE .
hexdump コマンドは、util-linux パッケージの一部であり、
.UR https://\:www.kernel.org\:/pub\:/linux\:/utils\:/util-linux/
Linux Kernel Archive
.UE
から入手できる。
.SH 翻訳者謝辞
この man ページの翻訳にあたり、
FreeBSD jpman project <http://www.jp.freebsd.org/man-jp/>
による翻訳を参考にさせていただいた。
