.\" Copyright 1993 Rickard E. Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" May be distributed under the GNU General Public License
.\"
.\" Japanese Version Copyright (c) 2020-2021 Yuichi SATO
.\"         all rights reserved.
.\" Translated Fri Apr 10 18:45:29 JST 2020
.\"         by Yuichi SATO <ysato444@ybb.ne.jp>
.\" Updated & Modified Wed Jan 20 21:46:49 JST 2021 by Yuichi SATO
.\"
.TH IPCS "1" "July 2014" "util-linux" "User Commands"
.\"O .SH NAME
.SH 名前
.\"O ipcs \- show information on IPC facilities
ipcs \- IPC 機能 (facilities) の情報を表示する。
.\"O .SH SYNOPSIS
.SH 書式
.B ipcs
[options]
.\"O .SH DESCRIPTION
.SH 説明
.\"O .B ipcs
.\"O shows information on System V inter-process communication facilities.
.\"O By default it shows information about all three resources:
.\"O shared memory segments, message queues, and semaphore arrays.
.B ipcs
は、System V プロセス間通信 (inter-process communication) 機能の
情報を表示する。
デフォルトでは、3 つのリソース全ての情報を表示する:
共有メモリセグメント、メッセージキュー、セマフォ配列。
.\"O .SH OPTIONS
.SH オプション
.TP
\fB\-i\fR, \fB\-\-id\fR \fIid\fR
.\"O Show full details on just the one resource element identified by
.\"O .IR id .
.I id
で識別される 1 つのリソースについて、完全な詳細を表示する。
.\"O This option needs to be combined with one of the three resource options:
.\"O .BR \-m ,
.\"O .BR \-q " or"
.\"O .BR \-s .
このオプションは、以下の 3 つのリソースオプションのいずれか 1 つと組み合わせる必要がある:
.BR \-m ,
.BR \-q ,
.BR \-s .
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
.\"O Display help text and exit.
ヘルプを表示して、終了する。
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
.\"O Display version information and exit.
バージョン情報を表示して、終了する。
.\"O .SS "Resource options"
.SS リソースオプション
.TP
\fB\-m\fR, \fB\-\-shmems\fR
.\"O Write information about active shared memory segments.
アクティブな共有メモリセグメントの情報を書き出す。
.TP
\fB\-q\fR, \fB\-\-queues\fR
.\"O Write information about active message queues.
アクティブなメッセージキューの情報を書き出す。
.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-semaphores\fR
.\"O Write information about active semaphore sets.
アクティブなセマフォセットの情報を書き出す。
.TP
\fB\-a\fR, \fB\-\-all\fR
.\"O Write information about all three resources (default).
3 つリソース全ての情報を書き出す (デフォルト)。
.\"O .SS "Output formats"
.SS 出力フォーマット
.\"O Of these options only one takes effect: the last one specified.
これらのオプションは、最後に指定された 1 つのみが効果を持つ。
.TP
\fB\-c\fR, \fB\-\-creator\fR
.\"O Show creator and owner.
作成者と所有者を表示する。
.TP
\fB\-l\fR, \fB\-\-limits\fR
.\"O Show resource limits.
リソースの制限を表示する。
.TP
\fB\-p\fR, \fB\-\-pid\fR
.\"O Show PIDs of creator and last operator.
作成者と最後に操作したユーザの PID を表示する。
.TP
\fB\-t\fR, \fB\-\-time\fR
.\"O Write time information.  The time of the last control operation that changed
.\"O the access permissions for all facilities, the time of the last
.\"O .BR msgsnd (2)
.\"O and
.\"O .BR msgrcv (2)
.\"O operations on message queues, the time of the last
.\"O .BR shmat (2)
.\"O and
.\"O .BR shmdt (2)
.\"O operations on shared memory, and the time of the last
.\"O .BR semop (2)
.\"O operation on semaphores.
時刻情報を書き出す。
全ての機能についてのアクセス権限の変更の操作時刻、
メッセージキューについての最後の
.BR msgsnd (2)
と
.BR msgrcv (2)
操作の時刻、
共有メモリについての最後の
.BR shmat (2)
と
.BR shmdt (2)
操作の時刻、
セマフォについての最後の
.BR semop (2)
操作の時刻である。
.TP
\fB\-u\fR, \fB\-\-summary\fR
.\"O Show status summary.
状態のサマリを表示する。
.\"O .SS "Representation"
.SS 表示
.\"O These affect only the \fB\-l\fR (\fB\-\-limits\fR) option.
これらのオプションは \fB\-l\fR (\fB\-\-limits\fR) オプションにのみ効果がある。
.TP
\fB\-b\fR, \fB\-\-bytes\fR
.\"O Print sizes in bytes.
サイズをバイト単位で表示する。
.TP
.B \-\-human
.\"O Print sizes in human-readable format.
サイズを人が読みやすい形式で表示する。
.\"O .SH CONFORMING TO
.SH 準拠
.\"O The Linux ipcs utility is not fully compatible to the POSIX ipcs utility.
Linux ipcs ユーティリティは、POSIX ipcs ユーティリティと完全互換ではない。
.\"O The Linux version does not support the POSIX
.\"O .BR \-a ,
.\"O .B \-b
.\"O and
.\"O .B \-o
.\"O options, but does support the
.\"O .B \-l
.\"O and
.\"O .B \-u
.\"O options not defined by POSIX.  A portable application shall not use the
.\"O .BR \-a ,
.\"O .BR \-b ,
.\"O .BR \-o ,
.\"O .BR \-l ,
.\"O and
.\"O .B \-u
.\"O options.
Linux 版は、POSIX の
.BR \-a ,
.BR \-b ,
.B \-o
オプションをサポートしないが、POSIX で定義されていない
.BR \-l ,
.B \-u
オプションをサポートする。
移植性を考えたアプリケーションでは、
.BR \-a ,
.BR \-b ,
.BR \-o ,
.BR \-l ,
.B \-u
オプションを使うべきではない。
.\"O .SH NOTES
.SH 注意
.\"O The current implementation of
.\"O .B ipcs
.\"O obtains information about available IPC resources by parsing the files in
.\"O .IR /proc/sysvipc .
現在の
.B ipcs
の実装では、利用可能な IPC リソースの情報を、
.I /proc/sysvipc
のファイルを解析して取得している。
.\"O Before util-linux version v2.23, an alternate mechanism was used: the
.\"O .B IPC_STAT
.\"O command of
.\"O .BR msgctl (2),
.\"O .BR semctl (2),
.\"O and
.\"O .BR shmctl (2).
util-linux バージョン v2.23 以前では、
.BR msgctl (2),
.BR semctl (2),
.BR shmctl (2)
の
.B IPC_STAT
コマンドを使った別の仕組みが使われていた。
.\"O This mechanism is also used in later util-linux versions in the case where
.\"O .I /proc
.\"O is unavailable.
以降の util-linux のバージョンでも、
.I /proc
が利用可能でない場合、この仕組みが使われる。
.\"O A limitation of the
.\"O .B IPC_STAT
.\"O mechanism is that it can only be used to retrieve information about
.\"O IPC resources for which the user has read permission.
.B IPC_STAT
を使う仕組みの制限は、ユーザーが読み取り権限を持つ IPC リソースについての情報しか
取得できないことである。
.\"O .SH AUTHORS
.SH 著者
.UR balasub@cis.ohio-state.edu
Krishna Balasubramanian
.UE
.\"O .SH SEE ALSO
.SH 関連項目
.BR ipcmk (1),
.BR ipcrm (1),
.BR msgrcv (2),
.BR msgsnd (2),
.BR semget (2),
.BR semop (2),
.BR shmat (2),
.BR shmdt (2),
.BR shmget (2),
.BR sysvipc (7)
.\"O .SH AVAILABILITY
.SH 入手方法
.\"O The ipcs command is part of the util-linux package and is available from
.\"O .UR https://\:www.kernel.org\:/pub\:/linux\:/utils\:/util-linux/
.\"O Linux Kernel Archive
.\"O .UE .
ipcs コマンドは util-linux パッケージの一部であり、
.UR https://\:www.kernel.org\:/pub\:/linux\:/utils\:/util-linux/
Linux Kernel Archive
.UE
から入手できる。
