.\"
.\" Japanese Version Copyright (c) 2021 Yuichi SATO
.\"         all rights reserved.
.\" Translated Thu Jan 14 22:22:58 JST 2021
.\"         by Yuichi SATO <ysato444@ybb.ne.jp>
.\"
.TH IRQTOP "1" "February 2020" "util-linux" "User Commands"
.\"O .SH NAME
.SH 名前
.\"O irqtop \- utility to display kernel interrupt information
irqtop \- カーネルの割り込み情報を表示するユーティリティ
.\"O .SH SYNOPSIS
.SH 書式
.B irqtop
[options]
.\"O .SH DESCRIPTION
.SH 説明
.\"O Display kernel interrupt counter information in
.\"O .BR top (1)
.\"O style view.
カーネルの割り込みカウンター情報を
.BR top (1)
形式のビューで表示する。
.PP
.\"O The default output is subject to change.  So whenever possible, you should
.\"O avoid using default outputs in your scripts.  Always explicitly define
.\"O expected columns by using
.\"O .BR \-\-output .
デフォルトの出力は変更される可能性がある。
そのため、可能な限り、スクリプト中ではデフォルトの出力を使うのは
避けること。
必要なカラムは、常に
.B \-\-output
を使って明示的に定義すること。
.\"O .SH OPTIONS
.SH オプション
.TP
.BR \-o , " \-\-output " \fIlist\fP
.\"O Specify which output columns to print.  Use
.\"O .B \-\-help
.\"O to get a list of all supported columns.  The default list of columns may be
.\"O extended if list is specified in the format
.\"O .IR +list .
表示する出力カラムを指定する。
すべてのサポートされるカラムのリストを取得するには、
.B \-\-help
を使うこと。
リストを
.I +list
形式で指定した場合、カラムのデフォルトのリストに追加される。
.TP
.BR \-d , " \-\-delay " \fIseconds\fP
.\"O Update interrupt output every
.\"O .I seconds
.\"O intervals.
出力を
.I seconds
秒間隔で更新する。
.TP
.BR \-s , " \-\-sort " \fIcolumn\fP
.\"O Specify sort criteria by column name.  See
.\"O .B \-\-help
.\"O output to get column names.  The sort criteria may be changes in interactive
.\"O mode.
ソート条件をカラム名で指定する。
カラム名を取得するには、
.B \-\-help
の出力を参照すること。
ソート条件は、対話モードで変更できる。
.TP
.BR \-V ", " \-\-version
.\"O Display version information and exit.
バージョン情報を表示して、終了する。
.TP
.BR \-h ,\  \-\-help
.\"O Display help text and exit.
ヘルプを表示して、終了する。
.\"O .SH INTERACTIVE MODE KEY COMMANDS
.SH 対話モードのキーコマンド
.PD 0
.TP
.B i
.\"O sort by short irq name or number field
短い irq 名、または数値フィールドでソートする。
.TP
.B t
.\"O sort by total count of interrupts (the default)
割り込みの総数でソートする (デフォルト)。
.TP
.B d
.\"O sort by delta count of interrupts
割り込みの差分 (delta) 数でソートする。
.TP
.B n
.\"O sort by long descriptive name field
長い説明のフィールドでソートする。
.TP
.B q Q
.\"O stop updates and exit program
更新を停止し、プログラムを終了する。
.PD 1
.\"O .SH AUTHORS
.SH 著者
.MT pizhenwei@\:bytedance.com
Zhenwei Pi
.ME
.br
.MT kerolasa@\:iki.fi
Sami Kerola
.ME
.br
.MT kzak@\:redhat.com
Karel Zak
.ME
.\"O .SH AVAILABILITY
.SH 入手方法
.\"O The irqtop command is part of the util-linux package and is available from
.\"O .UR https://\:www.kernel.org\:/pub\:/linux\:/utils\:/util-linux/
.\"O Linux Kernel Archive
.\"O .UE .
irqtop コマンドは util-linux パッケージの一部であり、
.UR https://\:www.kernel.org\:/pub\:/linux\:/utils\:/util-linux/
Linux Kernel Archive
.UE
から入手できる。
