.\" Copyright 2015 Ondrej Oprala(ooprala@redhat.com)
.\" May be distributed under the GNU General Public License
.\"
.\" Japanese Version Copyright (c) 2020-2021 Yuichi SATO
.\"         all rights reserved.
.\" Translated Sat Apr 11 14:19:10 JST 2020
.\"         by Yuichi SATO <ysato444@ybb.ne.jp>
.\" Updated & Modified Thu Jan 21 21:04:25 JST 2021 by Yuichi SATO
.\" 
.TH LSIPC "1" "November 2015" "util-linux" "User Commands"
.\"O .SH NAME
.SH 名前
.\"O lsipc \- show information on IPC facilities currently employed in the system
lsipc \- システムで現在利用されている IPC 機能 (facilities) の情報を表示する。
.\"O .SH SYNOPSIS
.SH 書式
.B lsipc
[options]
.\"O .SH DESCRIPTION
.SH 説明
.\"O .B lsipc
.\"O shows information on the System V inter-process communication facilities
.\"O for which the calling process has read access.
.B lsipc
は、呼び出しプロセスが読み込みアクセスを持つ、System V
プロセス間通信 (inter-process communication) 機能の情報を表示する。
.\"O .SH OPTIONS
.SH オプション
.TP
\fB\-i\fR, \fB\-\-id\fR \fIid\fR
.\"O Show full details on just the one resource element identified by
.\"O .IR id .
.I id
で識別される 1 つのリソース要素の完全な詳細を表示する。
.\"O This option needs to be combined with one of the three resource options:
.\"O .BR \-m ,
.\"O .BR \-q " or"
.\"O .BR \-s .
このオプションは、以下の 3 つのリソースオプションのうちの 1 つと組み合わせる必要がある:
.BR \-m ,
.BR \-q ,
.BR \-s .
.\"O It is possible to override the default output format for this option with the
.\"O \fB\-\-list\fR, \fB\-\-raw\fR, \fB\-\-json\fR or \fB\-\-export\fR option.
このオプションのデフォルトの出力形式は、
\fB\-\-list\fR, \fB\-\-raw\fR, \fB\-\-json\fR,  \fB\-\-export\fR
オプションで上書きできる。
.TP
\fB\-g\fR, \fB\-\-global\fR
.\"O Show system-wide usage and limits of IPC resources.
IPC リソースのシステム全体での使用量と制限を表示する。
.\"O This option may be combined with one of the three resource options:
.\"O .BR \-m ,
.\"O .BR \-q " or"
.\"O .BR \-s .
このオプションは、以下の 3 つのリソースオプションのうちの 1 つと組み合わせることができる:
.BR \-m ,
.BR \-q ,
.BR \-s .
.\"O The default is to show information about all resources.
デフォルトでは全てのリソースの情報を表示する。
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
.\"O Display help text and exit.
ヘルプを表示して、終了する。
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
.\"O Display version information and exit.
バージョン情報を表示して、終了する。
.\"O .SS "Resource options"
.SS リソースオプション
.TP
\fB\-m\fR, \fB\-\-shmems\fR
.\"O Write information about active shared memory segments.
アクティブな共有メモリセグメントの情報を書き出す。
.TP
\fB\-q\fR, \fB\-\-queues\fR
.\"O Write information about active message queues.
アクティブなメッセージキューの情報を書き出す。
.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-semaphores\fR
.\"O Write information about active semaphore sets.
アクティブなセマフォセットの情報を書き出す。
.\"O .SS "Output formatting"
.SS 出力形式
.TP
\fB\-c\fR, \fB\-\-creator\fR
.\"O Show creator and owner.
作成者と所有者を表示する。
.TP
\fB\-e\fR, \fB\-\-export\fR
.\"O Output data in the format of NAME=VALUE.
データを NAME=VALUE の形式で出力する。
.TP
\fB\-J\fR, \fB\-\-json\fR
.\"O Use the JSON output format.
JSON 出力形式を使う。
.TP
\fB\-l\fR, \fB\-\-list\fR
.\"O Use the list output format.  This is the default, except when \fB\-\-id\fR
.\"O is used.
リスト出力形式を使う。
\fB\-\-id\fR が指定されているとき以外は、これがデフォルトである。
.TP
\fB\-n\fR, \fB\-\-newline\fR
.\"O Display each piece of information on a separate line.
各情報の塊を各行に書き出す。
.TP
\fB\-\-noheadings\fR
.\"O Do not print a header line.
ヘッダ行を表示しない。
.TP
\fB\-\-notruncate\fR
.\"O Don't truncate output.
出力を切り詰めない。
.TP
\fB\-o\fR, \fB\-\-output \fIlist\fP
.\"O Specify which output columns to print.  Use
.\"O .B \-\-help
.\"O to get a list of all supported columns.
表示する出力カラムを指定する。
サポートされる全てのカラムのリストは、
.B \-\-help
で取得できる。
.TP
\fB\-b\fR, \fB\-\-bytes\fR
.\"O Print size in bytes rather than in human readable format.
人が読みやすい形式ではなく、サイズをバイト単位で表示する。
.TP
\fB\-r\fR, \fB\-\-raw\fR
.\"O Raw output (no columnation).
(カラム揃えをしない) 生の出力。
.TP
\fB\-t\fR, \fB\-\-time\fR
.\"O Write time information.  The time of the last control operation that changed
.\"O the access permissions for all facilities, the time of the last
.\"O .BR msgsnd (2)
.\"O and
.\"O .BR msgrcv (2)
.\"O operations on message queues, the time of the last
.\"O .BR shmat (2)
.\"O and
.\"O .BR shmdt (2)
.\"O operations on shared memory, and the time of the last
.\"O .BR semop (2)
.\"O operation on semaphores.
時刻情報を書き出す。
全ての機能についてのアクセス権限の変更の操作時刻、
メッセージキューについての最後の
.BR msgsnd (2)
と
.BR msgrcv (2)
操作の時刻、
共有メモリについての最後の
.BR shmat (2)
と
.BR shmdt (2)
操作の時刻、
セマフォについての最後の
.BR semop (2)
操作の時刻である。
.TP
\fB\-\-time\-format\fR \fItype\fP
.\"O Display dates in short, full or iso format.  The default is short, this time
.\"O format is designed to be space efficient and human readable.
時間を short, full, iso 形式で表示する。
デフォルトは short で、この時間形式はスペースを使わず、人が読みやすいように設計
されている。
.TP
\fB\-P\fR, \fB\-\-numeric\-perms\fR
.\"O Print numeric permissions in PERMS column.
PERMS カラムに権限を数値で表示する。
.\"O .SH EXIT STATUS
.SH 返り値
.TP
0
.\"O if OK,
OK である。
.TP
1
.\"O if incorrect arguments specified,
不正な引き数が指定された。
.TP
2
.\"O if a serious error occurs.
致命的なエラーが起こった。
.\"O .SH HISTORY
.SH 履歴
.\"O The \fBlsipc\fP utility is inspired by the \fBipcs\fP utility.
\fBlsipc\fP ユーティリティは \fBipcs\fP ユーティリティに触発されて作成された。
.\"O .SH AUTHORS
.SH 著者
.MT ooprala@redhat.com
Ondrej Oprala
.ME
.br
.MT kzak@redhat.com
Karel Zak
.ME

.\"O .SH SEE ALSO
.SH 関連項目
.BR ipcmk (1),
.BR ipcrm (1),
.BR msgrcv (2),
.BR msgsnd (2),
.BR semget (2),
.BR semop (2),
.BR shmat (2),
.BR shmdt (2),
.BR shmget (2),
.BR sysvipc (7)
.\"O .SH AVAILABILITY
.SH 入手方法
.\"O The lsipc command is part of the util-linux package and is available from
.\"O .UR https://\:www.kernel.org\:/pub\:/linux\:/utils\:/util-linux/
.\"O Linux Kernel Archive
.\"O .UE .
lsipc コマンドは util-linux パッケージの一部であり、
.UR https://\:www.kernel.org\:/pub\:/linux\:/utils\:/util-linux/
Linux Kernel Archive
.UE
から入手できる。
