.\"
.\" Japanese Version Copyright (c) 2021 Yuichi SATO
.\"         all rights reserved.
.\" Translated Thu Jan 14 23:03:12 JST 2021
.\"         by Yuichi SATO <ysato444@ybb.ne.jp>
.\"
.TH IRQTOP "1" "February 2020" "util-linux" "User Commands"
.\"O .SH NAME
.SH 名前
.\"O lsirq \- utility to display kernel interrupt information
lsirq \- カーネルの割り込み情報を表示するユーティリティ
.\"O .SH SYNOPSIS
.SH 書式
.B lsirq
[options]
.\"O .SH DESCRIPTION
.SH 説明
.\"O Display kernel interrupt counter information.
カーネルの割り込みカウンター情報を表示する。
.PP
.\"O The default output is subject to change.  So whenever possible, you should
.\"O avoid using default outputs in your scripts.  Always explicitly define
.\"O expected columns by using
.\"O .BR \-\-output .
デフォルトの出力は変更される可能性がある。
そのため、可能な限り、スクリプト中ではデフォルトの出力を使うのは
避けること。
必要なカラムは、常に
.B \-\-output
を使って明示的に定義すること。
.\"O .SH OPTIONS
.SH オプション
.TP
.BR \-n ", " \-\-noheadings
.\"O Don't print headings.
ヘッダを表示しない。
.TP
.BR \-o , " \-\-output " \fIlist\fP
.\"O Specify which output columns to print.  Use
.\"O .B \-\-help
.\"O to get a list of all supported columns.  The default list of columns may be
.\"O extended if list is specified in the format
.\"O .IR +list .
表示する出力カラムを指定する。
すべてのサポートされるカラムのリストを取得するには、
.B \-\-help
を使うこと。
リストを
.I +list
形式で指定した場合、カラムのデフォルトのリストに追加される。
.TP
.BR \-s , " \-\-sort " \fIcolumn\fP
.\"O Specify sort criteria by column name.  See
.\"O .B \-\-help
.\"O output to get column names.
ソート条件をカラム名で指定する。
カラム名を取得するには、
.B \-\-help
の出力を参照すること。
.TP
.BR \-J ", " \-\-json
.\"O Use JSON output format.
JSON 出力形式を使う。
.TP
.BR \-P ", " \-\-pairs
.\"O Produce output in the form of key="value" pairs.  All potentially unsafe characters
.\"O are hex-escaped (\\x<code>).
キー="値" のペアの形式で出力する。
安全でない可能性のあるすべての文字は、16 進数エスケープ (\\x<code>) される。
.TP
.BR \-V ", " \-\-version
.\"O Display version information and exit.
バージョン情報を表示して、終了する。
.TP
.BR \-h ,\  \-\-help
.\"O Display help text and exit.
ヘルプを表示して、終了する。
.\"O .SH AUTHORS
.SH 著者
.MT pizhenwei@\:bytedance.com
Zhenwei Pi
.ME
.br
.MT kerolasa@\:iki.fi
Sami Kerola
.ME
.br
.MT kzak@\:redhat.com
Karel Zak
.ME
.\"O .SH AVAILABILITY
.SH 入手方法
.\"O The lsirq command is part of the util-linux package and is available from
.\"O .UR https://\:www.kernel.org\:/pub\:/linux\:/utils\:/util-linux/
.\"O Linux Kernel Archive
.\"O .UE .
lsirq コマンドは util-linux パッケージの一部であり、
.UR https://\:www.kernel.org\:/pub\:/linux\:/utils\:/util-linux/
Linux Kernel Archive
.UE
から入手できる。

