.\" mcookie.1 --
.\" Public Domain 1995 Rickard E. Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\"
.\" Japanese Version Copyright (c) 2001-2021 Yuichi SATO
.\"         all rights reserved.
.\" Translated Mon Jan  8 15:18:44 JST 2001
.\"         by Yuichi SATO <sato@complex.eng.hokudai.ac.jp>
.\" Updated & Modified Sun Jul 28 22:37:06 JST 2019
.\"         by Yuichi SATO <ysato444@ybb.ne.jp>
.\" Updated & Modified Thu Jan 21 21:45:54 JST 2021 by Yuichi SATO
.\"
.\"WORD:	X authority	X 認可
.\"
.TH MCOOKIE 1 "December 2014" "util-linux" "User Commands"
.\"O .SH NAME
.SH 名前
.\"O mcookie \- generate magic cookies for xauth
mcookie \- xauth のためのマジッククッキーを生成する
.\"O .SH SYNOPSIS
.SH 書式
.B mcookie
[options]
.\"O .SH DESCRIPTION
.SH 説明
.\"O .B mcookie
.\"O generates a 128-bit random hexadecimal number for use with the X authority
.\"O system.  Typical usage:
.B mcookie
は X 認可システムで使われる 128 ビットの 16 進数の乱数を生成する。
典型的な使い方は以下の通りである:
.sp
.RS
.B xauth add :0 . `mcookie`
.RE
.PP
.\"O The "random" number generated is actually the MD5 message
.\"O digest of random information coming from one of the sources
.\"O .IR getrandom ()
.\"O system call,
.\"O .IR /dev/urandom ,
.\"O .IR /dev/random ,
.\"O or the
.\"O .IR "libc pseudo-random functions" ,
.\"O in this preference order. See also the option \fB\-\-file\fR.
生成される「乱数」は MD5 メッセージダイジェストである。
これは
.IR getrandom ()
システムコール、
.IR /dev/urandom 、
.IR /dev/random 、
.I "libc 疑似乱数"
の順にいずれかのソースを元にした乱数情報である。
オプション \fB\-\-file\fR も参照すること。
.\"O .SH OPTIONS
.SH オプション
.TP
.BR \-f , " \-\-file " \fIfile
.\"O Use this \fIfile\fR as an additional source of randomness (for example /dev/urandom).
.\"O When \fIfile\fR is '-', characters are read from standard input.
\fIfile\fR を追加の乱数元とする (例 /dev/urandom)。
\fIfile\fR が '-' の場合、文字列を標準入力から読み取る。
.TP
.BR \-m , " \-\-max\-size " \fInumber
.\"O Read from \fIfile\fR only this \fInumber\fR of bytes.
.\"O This option is meant to be used when reading additional
.\"O randomness from a file or device.
\fIfile\fR から \fInumber\fR バイトのみを読み取る。
このオプションは追加の乱数元をファイルまたはデバイスから
読み取る時に使うことを意図している。
.IP
.\"O The
.\"O .I number
.\"O argument may be followed by the multiplicative suffixes KiB=1024,
.\"O MiB=1024*1024, and so on for GiB, TiB, PiB, EiB, ZiB and YiB (the "iB" is
.\"O optional, e.g., "K" has the same meaning as "KiB") or the suffixes
.\"O KB=1000, MB=1000*1000, and so on for GB, TB, PB, EB, ZB and YB.
.I number
引き数の後ろに倍数の拡張子
KiB (=1024), MiB (=1024*1024), GiB, TiB, PiB, EiB, ZiB, YiB を
付けることができる
("iB" はオプションであり、つまり "K" は "KiB" と同じ意味である)。
また、拡張子
KB (=1000), MB (=1000*1000), GB, TB, PB, EB, ZB, YB
を付けることもできる。
.TP
.BR \-v , " \-\-verbose"
.\"O Inform where randomness originated, with amount of entropy read from each
.\"O source.
乱数元がどこであるかと、各乱数元から読み取ったエントロピーを
表示する。
.TP
.BR \-V , " \-\-version"
.\"O Display version information and exit.
バージョン情報を表示して、終了する。
.TP
.BR \-h , " \-\-help"
.\"O Display help text and exit.
ヘルプを表示して、終了する。
.\"O .SH FILES
.SH ファイル
.I /dev/urandom
.br
.I /dev/random
.\"O .SH BUGS
.SH バグ
.\"O It is assumed that none of the randomness sources will block.
このコマンドは、オープンされたデバイスがブロックされていないことを
仮定している。
.\"O .SH SEE ALSO
.SH 関連項目
.BR md5sum (1),
.BR X (7),
.BR xauth (1),
.BR rand (3)
.\"O .SH AVAILABILITY
.SH 入手方法
.\"O The mcookie command is part of the util-linux package and is available from
.\"O .UR https://\:www.kernel.org\:/pub\:/linux\:/utils\:/util-linux/
.\"O Linux Kernel Archive
.\"O .UE .
mcookie コマンドは、util-linux パッケージの一部であり、
.UR https://\:www.kernel.org\:/pub\:/linux\:/utils\:/util-linux/
Linux Kernel Archive
.UE
から入手できる。
