.\" Original author unknown.  This man page is in the public domain.
.\" Modified Sat Oct  9 17:46:48 1993 by faith@cs.unc.edu
.\"
.\"
.\" Japanese Version Copyright (c) 2001 Maki KURODA
.\"  all right reserved,
.\" Translated Tue Feb 27 10:52:16 JST 2001
.\"  by Maki KURODA <mkuroda@mail.tsagrp.co.jp>
.\" Updated & Modified Tue Jul 30 15:14:50 JST 2019
.\"         by Yuichi SATO <ysato444@ybb.ne.jp>
.\" Updated & Modified Thu Jan 21 22:50:10 JST 2021 by Yuichi SATO
.\"
.TH NEWGRP 1 "October 1993" "util-linux" "User Commands"
.\"O .SH NAME
.\"O newgrp \- log in to a new group
.SH 名前
newgrp \-　新たなグループへのログイン
.\"O .SH SYNOPSIS
.SH 書式
.B newgrp
.RI [ group ]
.\"O .SH DESCRIPTION
.\"O .B newgrp
.\"O changes the group identification of its caller, analogously to
.\"O .BR login (1).
.\"O The same person remains logged in, and the current directory
.\"O is unchanged, but calculations of access permissions to files are performed
.\"O with respect to the new group ID.
.\"O .LP
.\"O If no group is specified, the GID is changed to the login GID.
.\"O .LP
.SH 説明
.B newgrp
は呼出し側のグループ ID を変更する、
.BR login (1)
に類似している。
同じ人がログイン状態のままであり、またカレントディレクトリも変わらない。
しかしファイルのアクセス権の計算は新しいグループ ID について実行される。
.LP
グループが指定されなかった場合、GID はログイン時の GID を変更する。
.\"O .SH FILES
.\"O .I /etc/group
.\"O .br
.\"O .I /etc/passwd
.\"O 
.SH ファイル
.I /etc/group
.br
.I /etc/passwd

.\"O .SH AUTHORS
.\"O Originally by Michael Haardt. Currently maintained by 
.\"O Peter Orbaek (poe@daimi.aau.dk).
.SH 著者
原文は Michael Haardt による。
現在のメンテナンスは Peter Orbaek (poe@daimi.aau.dk) による。

.\"O .SH "SEE ALSO"
.SH 関連項目
.BR login (1),
.BR group (5)

.\"O .SH AVAILABILITY
.SH 入手方法
.\"O The newgrp command is part of the util-linux package and is available from
.\"O https://www.kernel.org/pub/linux/utils/util-linux/.
newgrp コマンドは、util-linux パッケージの一部であり、
https://www.kernel.org/pub/linux/utils/util-linux/
から入手できる。
