.\" Copyright (c) 1985, 1992 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	@(#)rev.1	6.3 (Berkeley) 3/21/92
.\"
.\" Translated Sun Aug 1 JST 1993 by NetBSD jman proj. <jman@spa.is.uec.ac.jp>
.\" Updated Wed Apr 5 JST 2000 by Kentaro Shirakata <argrath@ub32.org>
.\" Updated & Modified Tue Jul 30 20:30:06 JST 2019
.\"         by Yuichi SATO <ysato444@ybb.ne.jp>
.\" Updated & Modified Fri Jan 22 18:48:32 JST 2021 by Yuichi SATO
.\"
.TH REV "1" "September 2011" "util-linux" "User Commands"
.\"O .SH NAME
.SH 名前
.\"O rev \- reverse lines characterwise
rev \- 各行ごとに、入力された文字を逆に並べたものを出力する
.\"O .SH SYNOPSIS
.SH 書式
.B rev
[option]
.RI [ file ...]
.\"O .SH DESCRIPTION
.SH 説明
.\"O The
.\"O .B rev
.\"O utility copies the specified files to standard output, reversing the order of
.\"O characters in every line.  If no files are specified, standard input is read.
.B rev
ユーティリティは、
.I file
が指定されていればそのファイルを、指定されていなければ標準入力を
読み込み、各行ごとに文字の並びを逆にして出力する。
.PP
.\"O This utility is a line-oriented tool and it uses in-memory allocated buffer
.\"O for a whole wide-char line.  If the input file is huge and without line breaks
.\"O than allocate the memory for the file may be unsuccessful.
このユーティリティは、行ベースのツールであり、行全体に対してメモリ上に
確保したバッファを使う。
入力ファイルが大きくて、かつ改行がなく、ファイルに対して確保した
メモリより大きい場合、失敗する。
.\"O .SH OPTIONS
.SH オプション
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
.\"O Display version information and exit.
バージョン情報を表示して、終了する。
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
.\"O Display help text and exit.
ヘルプを表示して、終了する。
.\"O .SH SEE ALSO
.SH 関連項目
.BR tac (1)
.\"O .SH AVAILABILITY
.SH 入手方法
.\"O The rev command is part of the util-linux package and is available from
.\"O .UR https://\:www.kernel.org\:/pub\:/linux\:/utils\:/util-linux/
.\"O Linux Kernel Archive
.\"O .UE .
rev コマンドは、util-linux パッケージの一部であり、
.UR https://\:www.kernel.org\:/pub\:/linux\:/utils\:/util-linux/
Linux Kernel Archive
.UE
から入手できる。
