.\"
.\" Japanese Version Copyright (c) 2020-2021 Yuichi SATO
.\"         all rights reserved.
.\" Translated Sun Apr 12 21:21:02 JST 2020
.\"         by Yuichi SATO <ysato444@ybb.ne.jp>
.\" Updated & Modified Fri Jan 22 20:14:41 JST 2021 by Yuichi SATO
.\"
.TH RUNUSER 1 "July 2014" "util-linux" "User Commands"
.\"O .SH NAME
.SH 名前
.\"O runuser \- run a command with substitute user and group ID
runuser \- 代わりのユーザー ID とグループ ID でコマンドを実行する。
.\"O .SH SYNOPSIS
.SH 書式
.BR runuser " [options] " \-u
.I user
.RI "[[\-\-] " command " ["argument "...]]"
.LP
.BR runuser " [options] [" \- ]
.RI [ user " [" argument "...]]"
.\"O .SH DESCRIPTION
.SH 説明
.\"O .B runuser
.\"O can be used to run commands with a substitute user and group ID.
.B runuser
を使うと、代わりのユーザー ID とグループ ID でコマンドを実行できる。
.\"O If the option \fB\-u\fR is not given,
.\"O .B runuser
.\"O falls back to
.\"O .BR su -compatible
.\"O semantics and a shell is executed.
オプション \fB\-u\fR が指定されない場合、
.B runuser
は
.B su
互換の動作にフォールバックし、シェルが実行される。
.\"O The difference between the commands
.\"O .B runuser
.\"O and
.\"O .B su
.\"O is that
.\"O .B runuser
.\"O does not ask for a password (because it may be executed by the root user only) and
.\"O it uses a different PAM configuration.
コマンド
.B runuser
と
.B su
の違いは、
.B runuser
が (root ユーザーのみから実行されるため) パスワードを尋ねない点と、
別の PAM 設定を使っている点である。
.\"O The command
.\"O .B runuser
.\"O does not have to be installed with set-user-ID permissions.
コマンド
.B runuser
は set-user-ID 権限でインストールする必要はない。
.PP
.\"O If the PAM session is not required,
.\"O then the recommended solution is to use the
.\"O .BR setpriv (1)
.\"O command.
PAM セッションが必要なければ、推奨される方法は
.BR setpriv (1)
コマンドを使うことである。
.PP
.\"O When called without arguments,
.\"O .B runuser
.\"O defaults to running an interactive shell as
.\"O .IR root .
引き数なしで呼び出された場合、
.B runuser
はデフォルトで対話シェルを
.I root
として実行する。
.PP
.\"O For backward compatibility,
.\"O .B runuser
.\"O defaults to not changing the current directory and to setting only the
.\"O environment variables
.\"O .B HOME
.\"O and
.\"O .B SHELL
.\"O (plus
.\"O .B USER
.\"O and
.\"O .B LOGNAME
.\"O if the target
.\"O .I user
.\"O is not root).
後方互換のため、
.B runuser
はデフォルトではカレントディレクトリを変更せず、
環境変数
.B HOME
と
.B SHELL
を設定するだけである
(対象の
.I user
が root でない場合、
.B USER
と
.B LOGNAME
も設定する)。
.\"O This version of
.\"O .B runuser
.\"O uses PAM for session management.
このバージョンの
.B runuser
はセッション管理に PAM を使う。
.PP
.\"O Note that
.\"O .B runuser
.\"O in all cases use PAM (pam_getenvlist()) to do
.\"O the final environment modification.
すべての場合において、
.B runuser
は、最終的な環境変数の変更のために、
PAM (pam_getenvlist()) を使うことに注意すること。
.\"O Command-line options
.\"O such as \fB\-\-login\fR and \fB\-\-preserve\-environment\fR affect
.\"O the environment before it is modified by PAM.
\fB\-\-login\fR や \fB\-\-preserve\-environment\fR といった
コマンドラインオプションは、PAM で変更される前の環境変数に影響する。
.\"O .SH OPTIONS
.SH オプション
.TP
.BR \-c , " \-\-command" = \fIcommand
.\"O Pass
.\"O .I command
.\"O to the shell with the
.\"O .B \-c
.\"O option.
.I command
をシェルに
.B \-c
オプションを付けて渡す。
.TP
.BR \-f , " \-\-fast"
.\"O Pass
.\"O .B \-f
.\"O to the shell, which may or may not be useful, depending on the
.\"O shell.
.B \-f
をシェルに渡す。
これはシェルによっては、使えたり、使えなかったりする。
.TP
.BR \-g , " \-\-group" = \fIgroup
.\"O The primary group to be used.  This option is allowed for the root user only.
使用するプライマリーグループ。
このオプションは root ユーザーにのみ許可されている。
.TP
.BR \-G , " \-\-supp\-group" = \fIgroup
.\"O Specify a supplementary group.
.\"O This option is available to the root user only.  The first specified
.\"O supplementary group is also used as a primary group
.\"O if the option \fB\-\-group\fR is not specified.
補助 (supplementary) グループを指定する。
このオプションは root ユーザーにのみ許可されている。
オプション \fB\-\-group\fR が指定されていない場合、補助グループがプライマリグループとして
使われる。
.TP
.BR \- , " \-l" , " \-\-login"
.\"O Start the shell as a login shell with an environment similar to a real
.\"O login:
シェルをログインシェルとして開始する。環境変数は実際の login と同様である:
.RS
.IP * 2
.\"O clears all the environment variables except for
.\"O .B TERM
.\"O and variables specified by \fB\-\-whitelist\-environment\fR
.B TERM
と \fB\-\-whitelist\-environment\fR で指定された環境変数以外の、
全ての環境変数をクリアする。
.IP *
.\"O initializes the environment variables
環境変数
.BR HOME ,
.BR SHELL ,
.BR USER ,
.BR LOGNAME ,
.B PATH
を初期化する。
.IP *
.\"O changes to the target user's home directory
対象ユーザーのホームディレクトリに変更する。
.IP *
.\"O sets argv[0] of the shell to
.\"O .RB ' \- '
.\"O in order to make the shell a login shell
シェルの argv[0] に
.RB ' \- '
を設定し、シェルをログインシェルとする。
.RE
.TP
.BR \-P , " \-\-pty"
.\"O Create a pseudo-terminal for the session. The independent terminal provides
.\"O better security as the user does not share a terminal with the original
.\"O session.
.\"O This can be used to avoid TIOCSTI ioctl terminal injection and other
.\"O security attacks against terminal file descriptors.
.\"O The entire session can also be moved to the background
.\"O (e.g., "runuser \-\-pty \-u username \-\- command &").
セッションに対して擬似端末 (pseudo-terminal) を作成する。
独立した端末を使うことで、ユーザーが元のセッションと端末を
共有しなくなり、より良いセキュリティ環境を提供する。
これにより、端末のファイルディスクリプターに対する、
TIOCSTI ioctl 端末インジェクションやセキュリティアタックを回避できる。
全てのセッションはバックグランドに移すこともできる
(例えば、"runuser \-\-pty \-u username \-\- command &")。
.\"O If the pseudo-terminal is enabled, then
.\"O .B runuser
.\"O works as a proxy between the sessions (copy stdin and stdout).
擬似端末が有効になっている場合、 runuser はセッション間の
プロキシとして動作する (標準入力と標準出力をコピーする)。
.IP
.\"O This feature is mostly designed for interactive sessions.
.\"O If the standard input is not a terminal,
.\"O but for example a pipe (e.g., echo "date" | runuser \-\-pty \-u user),
.\"O then the ECHO flag for the pseudo-terminal is disabled to avoid messy output.
この機能は大部分が対話セッションのために設計されている。
標準入力が端末ではなく、例えばパイプの場合
(例、echo "date" | runuser \-\-pty \-u user)、
不要な出力を避けるため、擬似端末の ECHO フラグは無効化される。
.TP
.BR \-m , " \-p" , " \-\-preserve\-environment"
.\"O Preserve the entire environment, i.e., do not set
.\"O .BR HOME ,
.\"O .BR SHELL ,
.\"O .B USER
.\"O or
.\"O .BR LOGNAME .
環境変数を保持する。つまり、
.BR HOME ,
.BR SHELL ,
.BR USER ,
.B LOGNAME
を設定しない。
.\"O The option is ignored if the option \fB\-\-login\fR is specified.
オプション \fB\-\-login\fR が指定されている場合、このオプションは無視される。
.TP
.BR \-s , " \-\-shell" = \fIshell
.\"O Run the specified \fIshell\fR instead of the default.  The shell to run is
.\"O selected according to the following rules, in order:
デフォルトのシェルの代わりに、指定した \fIshell\fR を実行する。
実行するシェルは以下のルールに従って順番に選択される:
.RS
.IP * 2
.\"O the shell specified with
.\"O .B \-\-shell
.B \-\-shell
で指定したシェル
.IP *
.\"O the shell specified in the environment variable
.\"O .B SHELL
.\"O if the
.\"O .B \-\-preserve\-environment
.\"O option is used
.B \-\-preserve\-environment
オプションが使われている場合は、環境変数
.B SHELL
で指定されたシェル
.IP *
.\"O the shell listed in the passwd entry of the target user
対象ユーザーの passwd エントリにリストされているシェル
.IP *
/bin/sh
.RE
.IP
.\"O If the target user has a restricted shell (i.e., not listed in
.\"O /etc/shells), then the
.\"O .B \-\-shell
.\"O option and the
.\"O .B SHELL
.\"O environment variables are ignored unless the calling user is root.
対象ユーザーが制限されたシェル
(つまり /etc/shells に記載されていないシェル) を使っている場合、
呼び出し元ユーザーが root でない限り、
.B \-\-shell
オプションと
.B SHELL
環境変数は無視される。
.TP
.BI \-\-session\-command= command
.\"O Same as
.\"O .BR \-c ,
.\"O but do not create a new session.  (Discouraged.)
.B \-c
と同様であるが、新しいセッションを作成しない。(推奨しない)
.TP
.BR \-w , " \-\-whitelist\-environment" = \fIlist
.\"O Don't reset the environment variables specified in the
.\"O comma-separated \fIlist\fR when clearing the
.\"O environment for \fB\-\-login\fR. The whitelist is ignored for the environment variables
.\"O .BR HOME ,
.\"O .BR SHELL ,
.\"O .BR USER ,
.\"O .BR LOGNAME ", and"
.\"O .BR PATH "."
\fB\-\-login\fR で環境変数をクリアする際に、
カンマ区切りの \fIlist\fR に指定された環境変数はリセットしない。
このホワイトリストでは、環境変数
.BR HOME ,
.BR SHELL ,
.BR USER ,
.BR LOGNAME ,
.B PATH
は無視される。
.TP
.BR \-V , " \-\-version"
.\"O Display version information and exit.
バージョン情報を表示して、終了する。
.TP
.BR \-h , " \-\-help"
.\"O Display help text and exit.
ヘルプを表示して、終了する。
.\"O .SH CONFIG FILES
.SH 設定ファイル
.\"O .B runuser
.\"O reads the
.\"O .I /etc/default/runuser
.\"O and
.\"O .I /etc/login.defs
.\"O configuration files.  The following configuration items are relevant
.\"O for
.\"O .BR runuser :
.B runuser
は設定ファイル
.I /etc/default/runuser
と
.I /etc/login.defs
を読み込む。
以下の設定項目が
.B runuser
と関連する:
.PP
.B ENV_PATH
.\"O (string)
(文字列)
.RS 4
.\"O Defines the PATH environment variable for a regular user.  The
.\"O default value is
.\"O .IR /usr/local/bin:\:/bin:\:/usr/bin .
一般ユーザーの PATH 環境変数を定義する。
デフォルト値は、
.I /usr/local/bin:\:/bin:\:/usr/bin
である。
.RE
.PP
.B ENV_ROOTPATH
.\"O (string)
(文字列)
.br
.B ENV_SUPATH
.\"O (string)
(文字列)
.RS 4
.\"O Defines the
.\"O .B PATH
.\"O environment variable for root.
.\"O .B ENV_SUPATH
.\"O takes precedence.  The default value is
.\"O .IR /usr/local/sbin:\:/usr/local/bin:\:/sbin:\:/bin:\:/usr/sbin:\:/usr/bin 
root の
.B PATH
環境変数を定義する。
.B ENV_SUPATH
が優先される。
デフォルト値は、
.I /usr/local/sbin:\:/usr/local/bin:\:/sbin:\:/bin:\:/usr/sbin:\:/usr/bin
である。
.RE
.PP
.B ALWAYS_SET_PATH
.\"O (boolean)
(ブール値)
.RS 4
.\"O If set to
.\"O .I yes
.\"O and \-\-login and \-\-preserve\-environment were not specified
.\"O .B runuser
.\"O initializes
.\"O .BR PATH .
この項目が
.I yes
に設定されており、\-\-login と \-\-preserve\-environment が指定されない場合、
.B runuser
は
.B PATH
を初期化する。
.RE
.sp
.\"O The environment variable
.\"O .B PATH
.\"O may be different on systems where
.\"O .I /bin
.\"O and
.\"O .I /sbin
.\"O are merged into
.\"O .IR  /usr ;
.I /bin
と
.I /sbin
が
.I /usr
の中に統合されているシステムでは、
環境変数
.B PATH
が違うかもしれない。
.\"O this variable is also affected by the \fB\-\-login\fR command-line option and
.\"O the PAM system setting (e.g.,
.\"O .BR pam_env (8)).
この環境変数は、\fB\-\-login\fR コマンドラインオプションと PAM システム設定
(例えば、
.BR pam_env (8))
の影響も受ける。
.\"O .SH EXIT STATUS
.SH 返り値
.\"O .B runuser
.\"O normally returns the exit status of the command it executed.  If the
.\"O command was killed by a signal,
.\"O .B runuser
.\"O returns the number of the signal plus 128.
通常、
.B runuser
は実行したコマンドの返り値を返す。
コマンドがシグナルで kill された場合、
.B runuser
はシグナルの番号 + 128 を返す。
.PP
.\"O Exit status generated by
.\"O .B runuser
.\"O itself:
.B runuser
自身が生成する返り値は、以下の通り:
.RS 10
.TP
1
.\"O Generic error before executing the requested command
要求されたコマンドを実行する前の一般的なエラー。
.TP
126
.\"O The requested command could not be executed
要求されたコマンドが実行できなかった。
.TP
127
.\"O The requested command was not found
要求されたコマンドが見つからなかった。
.RE
.\"O .SH FILES
.SH ファイル
.PD 0
.TP 17
/etc/pam.d/runuser
.\"O default PAM configuration file
デフォルトの PAM 設定ファイル
.TP
/etc/pam.d/runuser-l
.\"O PAM configuration file if \-\-login is specified
\-\-login が指定された場合の PAM 設定ファイル
.TP
/etc/default/runuser
.\"O runuser specific logindef config file
runuser 固有の logindef 設定ファイル
.TP
/etc/login.defs
.\"O global logindef config file
グローバルの logindef 設定ファイル
.PD 1
.\"O .SH HISTORY
.SH 履歴
.\"O This \fB runuser\fR command was
.\"O derived from coreutils' \fBsu\fR, which was based on an implementation by
.\"O David MacKenzie, and the Fedora \fBrunuser\fR command by Dan Walsh.
この \fBrunuser\fR コマンドは、
David MacKenzie によって実装された coreutils の \fBsu\fR と、
Dan Walsh によって実装された Fedora の \fBrunuser\fR コマンドから派生している。
.\"O .SH SEE ALSO
.SH 関連項目
.BR setpriv (1),
.BR su (1),
.BR login.defs (5),
.BR shells (5),
.BR pam (8)
.\"O .SH AVAILABILITY
.SH 入手方法
.\"O The runuser command is part of the util-linux package and is
.\"O available from
.\"O .UR https://\:www.kernel.org\:/pub\:/linux\:/utils\:/util-linux/
.\"O Linux Kernel Archive
.\"O .UE .
runuser コマンドは util-linux パッケージの一部であり、
.UR https://\:www.kernel.org\:/pub\:/linux\:/utils\:/util-linux/
Linux Kernel Archive
.UE
から入手できる。
