.\"
.\" Japanese Version Copyright (c) 2020-2021 Yuichi SATO
.\"         all rights reserved.
.\" Translated Tue Apr 14 00:07:34 JST 2020
.\"         by Yuichi SATO <ysato444@ybb.ne.jp>
.\" Updated & Modified Sat Jan 23 08:29:01 JST 2021 by Yuichi SATO
.\"
.TH SU 1 "July 2014" "util-linux" "User Commands"
.\"O .SH NAME
.SH 名前
.\"O su \- run a command with substitute user and group ID
su \- 代わりのユーザー ID とグループ ID でコマンドを実行する。
.\"O .SH SYNOPSIS
.SH 書式
.BR su " [options] [" \- ]
.RI [ user " [" argument ...]]
.\"O .SH DESCRIPTION
.SH 説明
.\"O .B su
.\"O allows commands to be run with a substitute user and group ID.
.B su
を使うと、代わりのユーザー ID とグループ ID でコマンドを実行できる。
.PP
.\"O When called with no
.\"O .I user
.\"O specified,
.\"O .B su
.\"O defaults to running an interactive shell as
.\"O .IR root .
.I user
を指定せずに実行された場合、
.B su
は
.I root
で対話シェルを実行する。
.\"O When
.\"O .I user
.\"O is specified, additional
.\"O .IR argument s
.\"O can be supplied, in which case they are passed to the shell.
.I user
が指定された場合、追加の
.I argument
を指定可能で、これはシェルに渡される。
.PP
.\"O For backward compatibility,
.\"O .B su
.\"O defaults to not change the current directory and to only set the
.\"O environment variables
.\"O .B HOME
.\"O and
.\"O .B SHELL
.\"O (plus
.\"O .B USER
.\"O and
.\"O .B LOGNAME
.\"O if the target
.\"O .I user
.\"O is not root).  It is recommended to always use the
.\"O .B \-\-login
.\"O option (instead of its shortcut
.\"O .BR \- )
.\"O to avoid side effects caused by mixing environments.
後方互換のため、
.B su
はデフォルトではカレントディレクトリを変更せず、
環境変数
.B HOME
と
.B SHELL
を設定するだけである
(対象の
.I user
が root でない場合、
.B USER
と
.B LOGNAME
も設定する)。
いろいろな環境で副作用が出ないように、
(ショートカットの
.B \-
ではなく)
.B \-\-login
オプションを常に使うことが推奨される。
.PP
.\"O This version of
.\"O .B su
.\"O uses PAM for authentication, account and session management.  Some
.\"O configuration options found in other
.\"O .B su
.\"O implementations, such as support for a wheel group, have to be
.\"O configured via PAM.
このバージョンの
.B su
はアカウントとセッション管理に PAM を使う。
wheel グループのサポートといった、他の
.B su
実装にある設定オプションを使うには、PAM で設定する必要がある。
.PP
.\"O .B su
.\"O is mostly designed for unprivileged users, the recommended solution for
.\"O privileged users (e.g., scripts executed by root) is to use
.\"O non-set-user-ID command
.\"O .BR runuser (1)
.\"O that does not require authentication and provide separate PAM configuration. If
.\"O the PAM session is not required at all then the recommend solution is to use
.\"O command
.\"O .BR setpriv (1).
.B su
は主に非特権ユーザーのために設計されている。
特権ユーザーのための推奨される方法 (例えば、root が実行するスクリプト) は、
set-user-ID が設定されていないコマンド
.BR runuser (1)
を使うことである。
.BR runuser (1)
は認証は必要なく、別の PAM 設定で提供される。
PAM セッションが全く必要ない場合、推奨される方法は、コマンド
.BR setpriv (1)
を使うことである。
.PP
.\"O Note that
.\"O .B su
.\"O in all cases use PAM
.\"O .RB (pam_getenvlist (3))
.\"O to do the final environment modification.
すべての場合において、
.B su
は、最終的な環境変数の変更のために、
PAM
.RB ( pam_getenvlist (3))
を使うことに注意すること。
.\"O Command-line options
.\"O such as \fB\-\-login\fR and \fB\-\-preserve\-environment\fR affect
.\"O the environment before it is modified by PAM.
\fB\-\-login\fR や \fB\-\-preserve\-environment\fR といった
コマンドラインオプションは、PAM で変更される前の環境変数に影響する。

.\"O .SH OPTIONS
.SH オプション
.TP
.BR \-c , " \-\-command" = \fIcommand
.\"O Pass
.\"O .I command
.\"O to the shell with the
.\"O .B \-c
.\"O option.
.I command
をシェルに
.B \-c
オプションを付けて渡す。
.TP
.BR \-f , " \-\-fast"
.\"O Pass
.\"O .B \-f
.\"O to the shell, which may or may not be useful, depending on the shell.
.B \-f
をシェルに渡す。
これはシェルによっては、使えたり、使えなかったりする。
.TP
.BR \-g , " \-\-group" = \fIgroup
.\"O Specify the primary group.  This option is available to the root user only.
使用するプライマリーグループ。
このオプションは root ユーザーにのみ許可されている。
.TP
.BR \-G , " \-\-supp\-group" = \fIgroup
.\"O Specify a supplementary group.
.\"O This option is available to the root user only.  The first specified
.\"O supplementary group is also used as a primary group
.\"O if the option \fB\-\-group\fR is not specified.
補助 (supplementary) グループを指定する。
このオプションは root ユーザーにのみ許可されている。
オプション \fB\-\-group\fR が指定されていない場合、補助グループがプライマリグループとして
使われる。
.TP
.BR \- , " \-l" , " \-\-login"
.\"O Start the shell as a login shell with an environment similar to a real
.\"O login:
シェルをログインシェルとして開始する。環境変数は実際の login と同様である:
.RS 10
.TP
o
.\"O clears all the environment variables except
.\"O .B TERM
.\"O and variables specified by \fB\-\-whitelist\-environment\fR
.B TERM
と \fB\-\-whitelist\-environment\fR で指定された環境変数以外の、
全ての環境変数をクリアする。
.TP
o
.\"O initializes the environment variables
環境変数
.BR HOME ,
.BR SHELL ,
.BR USER ,
.\"O .BR LOGNAME ", and"
.BR LOGNAME ,
.B PATH
を初期化する。
.TP
o
.\"O changes to the target user's home directory
対象ユーザーのホームディレクトリに変更する。
.TP
o
.\"O sets argv[0] of the shell to
.\"O .RB ' \- '
.\"O in order to make the shell a login shell
シェルの argv[0] に
.RB ' \- '
を設定し、シェルをログインシェルとする。
.RE
.TP
.BR \-m , " \-p" , " \-\-preserve\-environment"
.\"O Preserve the entire environment, i.e., do not set
.\"O .BR HOME ,
.\"O .BR SHELL ,
.\"O .B USER
.\"O or
.\"O .BR LOGNAME .
環境変数を保持する。つまり、
.BR HOME ,
.BR SHELL ,
.BR USER ,
.B LOGNAME
を設定しない。
.\"O This option is ignored if the option \fB\-\-login\fR is specified.
オプション \fB\-\-login\fR が指定されている場合、このオプションは無視される。
.TP
.BR \-P , " \-\-pty"
.\"O Create a pseudo-terminal for the session. The independent terminal provides
.\"O better security as the user does not share a terminal with the original
.\"O session.
.\"O This can be used to avoid TIOCSTI ioctl terminal injection and other
.\"O security attacks against terminal file descriptors.
.\"O The entire session can also be moved to the background
.\"O (e.g., "su \-\-pty \- username \-c application &").
.\"O If the pseudo-terminal is enabled, then
.\"O .B su
.\"O works as a proxy between the sessions (copy stdin and stdout).
セッションに対して擬似端末 (pseudo-terminal) を作成する。
独立した端末を使うことで、ユーザーが元のセッションと端末を
共有しなくなり、より良いセキュリティ環境を提供する。
これにより、端末のファイルディスクリプターに対する、
TIOCSTI ioctl 端末インジェクションやセキュリティアタックを回避できる。
全てのセッションはバックグランドに移すこともできる
(例えば、"su \-\-pty \- username \-c application &")。
擬似端末が有効になっている場合、
.B su
コマンドはセッション間のプロキシとして動作する (標準入力と標準出力をコピーする)。
.IP
.\"O This feature is mostly designed for interactive sessions.
.\"O If the standard input is not a terminal,
.\"O but for example a pipe (e.g., echo "date" | su \-\-pty),
.\"O then the ECHO flag for the pseudo-terminal is disabled to avoid messy output.
この機能は大部分が対話セッションのために設計されている。
標準入力が端末ではなく、例えばパイプの場合
(例、echo "date" | su \-\-pty)、
不要な出力を避けるため、擬似端末の ECHO フラグは無効化される。
.TP
.BR \-s , " \-\-shell" = \fIshell
.\"O Run the specified \fIshell\fR instead of the default.  The shell to run is
.\"O selected according to the following rules, in order:
デフォルトのシェルの代わりに、指定した \fIshell\fR を実行する。
実行するシェルは以下のルールに従って順番に選択される:
.RS 10
.TP
o
.\"O the shell specified with
.\"O .B \-\-shell
.B \-\-shell
で指定したシェル
.TP
o
.\"O the shell specified in the environment variable
.\"O .BR SHELL ,
.\"O if the
.\"O .B \-\-preserve\-environment
.\"O option is used
オプションが使われている場合は、環境変数
.B SHELL
で指定されたシェル
.TP
o
.\"O the shell listed in the passwd entry of the target user
対象ユーザーの passwd エントリにリストされているシェル
.TP
o
/bin/sh
.RE
.IP
.\"O If the target user has a restricted shell (i.e., not listed in
.\"O /etc/shells), the
.\"O .B \-\-shell
.\"O option and the
.\"O .B SHELL
.\"O environment variables are ignored unless the calling user is root.
対象ユーザーが制限されたシェル
(つまり /etc/shells に記載されていないシェル) を使っている場合、
呼び出し元ユーザーが root でない限り、
.B \-\-shell
オプションと
.B SHELL
環境変数は無視される。
.TP
.BI \-\-session\-command= command
.\"O Same as
.\"O .BR \-c ,
.\"O but do not create a new session.  (Discouraged.)
.B \-c
と同様であるが、新しいセッションを作成しない。(推奨しない)
.TP
.BR \-w , " \-\-whitelist\-environment" = \fIlist
.\"O Don't reset the environment variables specified in the
.\"O comma-separated \fIlist\fR when clearing the
.\"O environment for \fB\-\-login\fR. The whitelist is ignored for the environment variables
.\"O .BR HOME ,
.\"O .BR SHELL ,
.\"O .BR USER ,
.\"O .BR LOGNAME ", and"
.\"O .BR PATH "."
\fB\-\-login\fR で環境変数をクリアする際に、
カンマ区切りの \fIlist\fR に指定された環境変数はリセットしない。
このホワイトリストでは、環境変数
.BR HOME ,
.BR SHELL ,
.BR USER ,
.BR LOGNAME ,
.B PATH
は無視される。
.TP
.BR \-V , " \-\-version"
.\"O Display version information and exit.
バージョン情報を表示して、終了する。
.TP
.BR \-h , " \-\-help"
.\"O Display help text and exit.
ヘルプを表示して、終了する。
.\"O .SH SIGNALS
.SH シグナル
.\"O Upon receiving either
.\"O .BR SIGINT ,
.\"O .B SIGQUIT
.\"O or
.\"O .BR SIGTERM ,
.\"O .B su
.\"O terminates its child and afterwards terminates itself with the received signal.
.BR SIGINT ,
.BR SIGQUIT ,
.B SIGTERM
を受けとると、
.B su
は、受け取ったシグナルで子プロセスを終了し、その後で自身を終了する。
.\"O The child is terminated by SIGTERM, after unsuccessful attempt and 2 seconds of
.\"O delay the child is killed by SIGKILL.
子プロセスが SIGTERM で終了されて失敗すると、2 秒後に SIGKILL で kill される。
.\"O .SH CONFIG FILES
.SH 設定ファイル
.\"O .B su
.\"O reads the
.\"O .I /etc/default/su
.\"O and
.\"O .I /etc/login.defs
.\"O configuration files.  The following configuration items are relevant
.\"O for
.\"O .BR su:
.B su
は設定ファイル
.I /etc/default/runuser
と
.I /etc/login.defs
を読み込む。
以下の設定項目が
.B su
と関連する:
.PP
.B FAIL_DELAY
.\"O (number)
(数値)
.RS 4
.\"O Delay in seconds in case of an authentication failure. The number must be
.\"O a non-negative integer.
認証が失敗した場合の待ち時間。数値は、負ではない整数である。
.RE
.PP
.B ENV_PATH
.\"O (string)
(文字列)
.RS 4
.\"O Defines the
.\"O .B PATH
.\"O environment variable for a regular user.  The
.\"O default value is
.\"O .IR /usr/local/bin:\:/bin:\:/usr/bin .
一般ユーザーの
.B PATH
環境変数を定義する。
デフォルト値は、
.I /usr/local/bin:\:/bin:\:/usr/bin
である。
.RE
.PP
.B ENV_ROOTPATH
.\"O (string)
(文字列)
.br
.B ENV_SUPATH
.\"O (string)
(文字列)
.RS 4
.\"O Defines the PATH environment variable for root.
.\"O .B ENV_SUPATH
.\"O takes precedence.  The default value is
.\"O .IR /usr/local/sbin:\:/usr/local/bin:\:/sbin:\:/bin:\:/usr/sbin:\:/usr/bin .
root の PATH 環境変数を定義する。
.B ENV_SUPATH
が優先される。
デフォルト値は、
.I /usr/local/sbin:\:/usr/local/bin:\:/sbin:\:/bin:\:/usr/sbin:\:/usr/bin
である。
.RE
.PP
.B ALWAYS_SET_PATH
.\"O (boolean)
(ブール値)
.RS 4
.\"O If set to
.\"O .I yes
.\"O and \-\-login and \-\-preserve\-environment were not specified
.\"O .B su
.\"O initializes
.\"O .BR PATH .
この項目が
.I yes
に設定されており、\-\-login と \-\-preserve\-environment が指定されない場合、
.B su
は
.B PATH
を初期化する。
.RE
.sp
.\"O The environment variable
.\"O .B PATH
.\"O may be different on systems where
.\"O .I /bin
.\"O and
.\"O .I /sbin
.\"O are merged into
.\"O .IR  /usr ;
.I /bin
と
.I /sbin
が
.I /usr
の中に統合されているシステムでは、
環境変数
.B PATH
が違うかもしれない。
.\"O this variable is also affected by the \fB\-\-login\fR command-line option and
.\"O the PAM system setting (e.g.,
.\"O .BR pam_env (8)).
この環境変数は、\fB\-\-login\fR コマンドラインオプションと PAM システム設定
(例えば、
.BR pam_env (8))
の影響も受ける。
.\"O .SH EXIT STATUS
.SH 返り値
.\"O .B su
.\"O normally returns the exit status of the command it executed.  If the
.\"O command was killed by a signal,
.\"O .B su
.\"O returns the number of the signal plus 128.
通常、
.B su
は実行したコマンドの返り値を返す。
コマンドがシグナルで kill された場合、
.B su
はシグナルの番号 + 128 を返す。
.PP
.\"O Exit status generated by
.\"O .B su
.\"O itself:
.B su
自身が生成する返り値は、以下の通り:
.RS 10
.TP
1
.\"O Generic error before executing the requested command
要求されたコマンドを実行する前の一般的なエラー。
.TP
126
.\"O The requested command could not be executed
要求されたコマンドが実行できなかった。
.TP
127
.\"O The requested command was not found
要求されたコマンドが見つからなかった。
.RE
.\"O .SH FILES
.SH ファイル
.PD 0
.TP 17
/etc/pam.d/su
.\"O default PAM configuration file
デフォルトの PAM 設定ファイル
.TP
/etc/pam.d/su-l
.\"O PAM configuration file if \-\-login is specified
\-\-login が指定された場合の PAM 設定ファイル
.TP
/etc/default/su
.\"O command specific logindef config file
su コマンド固有の logindef 設定ファイル
.TP
/etc/login.defs
.\"O global logindef config file
グローバルの logindef 設定ファイル
.PD 1
.\"O .SH NOTES
.SH 注意
.\"O For security reasons,
.\"O .B su
.\"O always logs failed log-in attempts to the btmp file, but it does not write to
.\"O the
.\"O .I lastlog
.\"O file at all.  This solution can be used to control
.\"O .B su
.\"O behavior by PAM configuration.  If you want to use the
.\"O .BR pam_lastlog (8)
.\"O module to
.\"O print warning message about failed log-in attempts then
.\"O .BR pam_lastlog (8)
.\"O has to
.\"O be configured to update the
.\"O .I lastlog
.\"O file as well. For example by:
セキュリティ上の理由から、
.B su
はログインの失敗を btmp ファイルに記録するが、
.I lastlog
ファイルには書き出さない。
この
.B su
挙動は PAM 設定で制御できる。
.BR pam_lastlog (8)
モジュールを使って、ログインの失敗の警告メッセージを表示する場合、
.I lastlog
ファイルも更新するように
.BR pam_lastlog (8)
を設定しなければならない。
例えば、以下のように設定する:
.RS
.br
session  required  pam_lastlog.so nowtmp
.RE
.\"O .SH HISTORY
.SH 履歴
.\"O This \fBsu\fR command was
.\"O derived from coreutils' \fBsu\fR, which was based on an implementation by
.\"O David MacKenzie. The util-linux has been refactored by Karel Zak.
この \fBsu\fR コマンドは、
David MacKenzie によって実装された coreutils の \fBsu\fR コマンドから派生している。
util-linux バージョンは Karel Zak によってリファクタされた。
.\"O .SH SEE ALSO
.SH 関連項目
.BR setpriv (1),
.BR login.defs (5),
.BR shells (5),
.BR pam (8),
.BR runuser (1)
.\"O .SH AVAILABILITY
.SH 入手方法
.\"O The su command is part of the util-linux package and is
.\"O available from
.\"O .UR https://\:www.kernel.org\:/pub\:/linux\:/utils\:/util-linux/
.\"O Linux Kernel Archive
.\"O .UE .
su コマンドは util-linux パッケージの一部であり、
.UR https://\:www.kernel.org\:/pub\:/linux\:/utils\:/util-linux/
Linux Kernel Archive
.UE
から入手できる。
