.\" Copyright (c) 1980, 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)ul.1	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/6/93
.\"
.\" Translated Tue Nov 12 JST 1996 by NetBSD jman proj. <jman@spa.is.uec.ac.jp>
.\" Updated Wed Apr 5 JST 2000 by Kentaro Shirakata <argrath@ub32.org>
.\" Updated & Modified Wed Jul 31 20:45:56 JST 2019
.\"         by Yuichi SATO <ysato444@ybb.ne.jp>
.\" Updated & Modified Sat Jan 23 08:44:33 JST 2021 by Yuichi SATO
.\"
.TH UL "1" "September 2011" "util-linux" "User Commands"
.\"O .SH NAME
.SH 名前
.\"O ul \- do underlining
ul \- 入力中のアンダーライン生成コードを端末のシーケンスに変換する
.\"O .SH SYNOPSIS
.SH 書式
.BR ul " [options]"
.RI [ file ...]
.\"O .SH DESCRIPTION
.SH 説明
.\"O .B ul
.\"O reads the named files (or standard input if none are given) and translates
.\"O occurrences of underscores to the sequence which indicates underlining for
.\"O the terminal in use, as specified by the environment variable
.\"O .BR TERM .
.B ul
は、
指定されたファイル (指定されていなければ標準入力) を読み、
アンダーラインを表示すべき部分を、環境変数
.B TERM
で定義されている端末にあわせてアンダーラインを表示するシーケンスに
変換する。
.\"O The
.\"O .I terminfo
.\"O database is read to determine the appropriate sequences for underlining.  If
.\"O the terminal is incapable of underlining but is capable of a standout mode,
.\"O then that is used instead.  If the terminal can overstrike, or handles
.\"O underlining automatically,
.\"O .B ul
.\"O degenerates to
.\"O .BR cat (1).
アンダーラインのシーケンスを決定するために、
.I terminfo
データベースが読み込まれる。
端末がアンダーライン機能を持たず、強調表示機能を持っている場合には、
強調表示を代わりに使用する。もし端末が二重印字できるか、端末自体に
アンダーラインを扱う機能があるならば、
.B ul
は
.BR cat (1)
と同じになる。
.\"O If the terminal cannot underline, underlining is ignored.
端末がアンダーラインを扱えない場合は、アンダーラインは無視される。
.\"O .SH OPTIONS
.SH オプション
.TP
\fB\-i\fR, \fB\-\-indicated\fR
.\"O Underlining is indicated by a separate line containing appropriate dashes
.\"O `\-'; this is useful when you want to look at the underlining which is
.\"O present in an
.\"O .B nroff
.\"O output stream on a crt-terminal.
アンダーラインのかわりに、次の行の当該位置にダッシュ `\-' を表示する。
これは、CRT 端末上で
.B nroff
出力のアンダーラインを見たいときに有効である。
.TP
\fB\-t\fR, \fB\-T\fR, \fB\-\-terminal\fR \fIterminal\fR
.\"O Override the environment variable
.\"O .B TERM
.\"O with the specified
.\"O .I terminal
.\"O type.
環境変数
.B TERM
を指定された端末タイプ
.I terminal
で上書きする。
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
.\"O Display version information and exit.
バージョン情報を表示して、終了する。
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
.\"O Display help text and exit.
ヘルプを表示して、終了する。
.\"O .SH ENVIRONMENT
.SH 環境変数
.\"O The following environment variable is used:
以下の環境変数が利用される:
.TP
.B TERM
.\"O The
.\"O .B TERM
.\"O variable is used to relate a tty device with its device capability
.\"O description (see
.\"O .BR terminfo (5)).
.B TERM
変数は、tty デバイスに対応する、デバイスの端末能力記述
.RB ( terminfo (5)
を参照すること) を得るために利用される。
.\"O .B TERM
.\"O is set at login time, either by the default terminal type specified in
.\"O .I /etc/ttys
.\"O or as set during the login process by the user in their
.\"O .B login
.\"O file (see
.\"O .BR setenv (3)).
.B TERM
は、ログイン時に、
.I /etc/ttys
に指定されたデフォルト端末タイプに設定されるか、
ログイン処理中に、
ユーザによって、そのユーザの
.B login
ファイルのなかで設定される
.RB ( setenv (3)
を参照すること)。
.\"O .SH HISTORY
.SH 履歴
.\"O The
.\"O .B ul
.\"O command appeared in 3.0BSD.
.B ul
コマンドは 3.0BSD から登場した。
.\"O .SH BUGS
.SH バグ
.\"O .B nroff
.\"O usually outputs a series of backspaces and underlines intermixed with the
.\"O text to indicate underlining.  No attempt is made to optimize the backward
.\"O motion.
.B nroff
は、通常、テキストにアンダーラインを入れるためにバックスペースと
アンダーライン文字を連続して出力する。
.B ul
は、このカーソルの逆方向への移動の最適化までは行わない。
.\"O .SH SEE ALSO
.SH 関連項目
.BR colcrt (1),
.BR login (1),
.BR man (1),
.BR nroff (1),
.BR setenv (3),
.BR terminfo (5)
.\"O .SH AVAILABILITY
.SH 入手方法
.\"O The ul command is part of the util-linux package and is available from
.\"O .UR https://\:www.kernel.org\:/pub\:/linux\:/utils\:/util-linux/
.\"O Linux Kernel Archive
.\"O .UE .
ul コマンドは、util-linux パッケージの一部であり、
.UR https://\:www.kernel.org\:/pub\:/linux\:/utils\:/util-linux/
Linux Kernel Archive
.UE
から入手できる。
