.\" Copyright (c) 1989, 1990, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This code is derived from software contributed to Berkeley by
.\" Kim Letkeman.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)cal.1	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/6/93
.\"
.\" Japanese Version Copyright (c) 1999 NAKANO Takeo all rights reserved.
.\" Translated Sat 18 Mar 2000 by NAKANO Takeo <nakano@apm.seikei.ac.jp>
.\" Updated Fri 16 Feb 2001 by Nakano Takeo
.\" Updated & Modified Tue May  7 01:05:42 JST 2002
.\"         by Yuichi SATO <ysato@h4.dion.ne.jp>
.\" Updated & Modified Sat Jul 20 14:12:26 JST 2019
.\"         by Yuichi SATO <ysato@ybb.ne.jp>
.\"
.TH CAL 1 "January 2018" "util-linux" "User Commands"
.\"O .SH NAME
.SH 名前
.\"O cal \- display a calendar
cal \- カレンダーを表示する
.\"O .SH SYNOPSIS
.SH 書式
.B cal
[options]
.RI [[[ day ] " month" ] " year" ]
.br
.B cal
[options]
.RI [ "timestamp" | "monthname" ]
.\"O .SH DESCRIPTION
.SH 説明
.\"O .B cal
.\"O displays a simple calendar.  If no arguments are specified, the current
.\"O month is displayed.
.B cal
は簡単なカレンダーを表示する。
引数を指定しないと、今月のカレンダーが表示される。
.sp
.\"O The \fImonth\fR may be specified as a number (1-12), as a month name or as an
.\"O abbreviated month name according to the current locales.
\fImonth\fR は数値 (1-12) で指定することも、
現在のロケールの月名または省略された月名でも指摘できる。
.sp
.\"O Two different calendar systems are used, Gregorian and Julian.  These are
.\"O nearly identical systems with Gregorian making a small adjustment to the
.\"O frequency of leap years; this facilitates improved synchronization with solar
.\"O events like the equinoxes.  The Gregorian calendar reform was introduced in
.\"O 1582, but its adoption continued up to 1923.  By default
.\"O .B cal
.\"O uses the adoption date of 3 Sept 1752.  From that date forward the Gregorian
.\"O calendar is displayed; previous dates use the Julian calendar system.  11 days
.\"O were removed at the time of adoption to bring the calendar in sync with solar
.\"O events.  So Sept 1752 has a mix of Julian and Gregorian dates by which the 2nd
.\"O is followed by the 14th (the 3rd through the 13th are absent).
グレゴリオ歴とユリウス歴の 2 つの異なるカレンダー体系が使われる。
ほぼ同様な体系であるが、グレゴリオ歴の方が閏年の頻度を調整が
少なくなっている。
この機能は分点 (equinoxes) のような太陽のイベントとの同期を向上させている。
グレゴリオ歴への切り替えは 1582 年に始まったが、適用は 1923 年まで続いた。
デフォルトでは、
.B cal
は適用日として 1752 年 9 月 3 日を使う。
この日以降グレゴリオ歴体系で表示され、
この日より前はユリウス歴体系を使う。
グレゴリオ歴の適用に当たって太陽のイベントと同期させるために、
11 日間が削除された。
そのため、1752 年 9 月はユリウス歴とグレゴリオ歴が混ざっていて、
2 日の後が 14 日である (3 日から 13 日は存在しない)。
.sp
.\"O Optionally, either the proleptic Gregorian calendar or the Julian calendar may
.\"O be used exclusively.
オプションとして先発 (proleptic) グレゴリオ歴、またはユリウス歴の
いずれかを使うことができる。
.\"O .RB See\  \-\-reform\  below.
下記の
.B \-\-reform
を参照。
.\"O .SH OPTIONS
.SH オプション
.TP
\fB\-1\fR, \fB\-\-one\fR
.\"O Display single month output.
.\"O (This is the default.)
1 つの月だけを出力する (これがデフォルトである)。
.TP
\fB\-3\fR, \fB\-\-three\fR
.\"O Display three months spanning the date.
当日をまたぐ 3 ヶ月分を表示する。
.TP
\fB\-n , \-\-months\fR \fInumber\fR
.\"O Display \fInumber\fR of months, starting from the month containing the date.
当日を含む月から始まる \fInumber\fR ヶ月分を表示する。
.TP
\fB\-S, \fB\-\-span\fR
.\"O Display months spanning the date.
当日をまたぐ月分を表示する。
.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-sunday\fR
.\"O Display Sunday as the first day of the week.
日曜日を週の最初の曜日にする。
.TP
\fB\-m\fR, \fB\-\-monday\fR
.\"O Display Monday as the first day of the week.
月曜日を週の最初の曜日にする。
.TP
.B \-\-iso
.\"O Display the proleptic Gregorian calendar exclusively.
先発グレゴリオ歴のみを表示する。
.\"O .RB See\  \-\-reform\  below.
下記の
.B \-\-reform
を参照。
.TP
\fB\-j\fR, \fB\-\-julian\fR
.\"O Use day-of-year numbering for all calendars.  These are also called ordinal
.\"O days.  Ordinal days range from 1 to 366.  This option does not switch from the
.\"O Gregorian to the Julian calendar system, that is controlled by the
.\"O .BR \-\-reform\  option.
すべてのカレンダーで年内日付を使う。
これは通算日 (ordinal days) とも呼ばれる。
通算日は 1 から 366 の範囲である。
このオプションを使うと、
.B \-\-reform
オプションで制御される
グレゴリオ歴体系からユリウス歴体系への切り替えを行わない。
.sp
.\"O Sometimes Gregorian calendars using ordinal dates are referred to as Julian
.\"O calendars.  This can be confusing due to the many date related conventions that
.\"O use Julian in their name: (ordinal) julian date, julian (calendar) date,
.\"O (astronomical) julian date, (modified) julian date, and more.  This option is
.\"O named julian, because ordinal days are identified as julian by the POSIX
.\"O standard.  However, be aware that
.\"O .B cal
.\"O also uses the Julian calendar system.
通算日を使ったグレゴリオ歴が、ユリウス歴と呼ばれることがある。
これは名前にユリウスを使う日付についての慣習で混乱を
起こすかもしれない。
(通算) ユリウス日付、ユリウス (歴) 日付、
(天文学的) ユリウス日付、(修正) ユリウス日付などがある。
POSIX 標準で通算日を julian と定義しているので、
このオプションは julian という名前にしている。
しかし、
.B cal
はユリウス歴体系も使うことを注意してほしい。
.\"O .RB See\  DESCRIPTION\  above.
上記の
.RB 「  説明 」
のセクションを参照。
.TP
.BI \-\-reform\  val
.\"O This option sets the adoption date of the Gregorian calendar reform.  Calendar
.\"O dates previous to reform use the Julian calendar system.  Calendar dates
.\"O after reform use the Gregorian calendar system.  The argument
.\"O .I val
.\"O can be:
このオプションはグレゴリオ歴切り替えの適用日を設定する。
切り替え前はユリウス歴体系を使い、
切り替え後はグレゴリオ歴体系を使う。
引数
.I val
は以下のとおり。
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
.I 1752
.\"O - sets 3 September 1752 as the reform date (default).
.\"O This is when the Gregorian calendar reform was adopted by the British Empire.
- 1752 年 9 月 3 日を切り替え日とする (デフォルト)。
これは大英帝国でグレゴリオ歴の切り替えが適用された日である。
.IP \(bu 2
.I gregorian
.\"O - display Gregorian calendars exclusively.  This special placeholder sets the
.\"O reform date below the smallest year that
.\"O .B cal
.\"O can use; meaning all calendar output uses the Gregorian calendar system.  This
.\"O is called the proleptic Gregorian calendar, because dates prior to the calendar
.\"O system's creation use extrapolated values.
.\"O:sato
.\"O:sato 2 文目の訳に自信なし。
.\"O:sato
- グレゴリオ歴のみを表示する。
これは
.B cal
が使用できる最小の年を、切り替え日以前に設定する
特別な代替物である。
つまり、すべてのカレンダー出力はグレゴリオ歴体系を使う。
これは、カレンダー体系の開始日以前では外挿値 (extrapolated value) を使うので、
先発グレゴリオ歴と呼ばれる。
.IP \(bu 2
.I iso
.\"O - alias of
.\"O .IR gregorian .
.\"O The ISO 8601 standard for the representation of dates and times in information
.\"O interchange requires using the proleptic Gregorian calendar.
.RI -\  gregorian
の別名。
情報交換における日付と時刻の表記に関する ISO 8601 規格では、
先発グレゴリオ歴を使う必要がある。
.IP \(bu 2
.I julian
.\"O - display Julian calendars exclusively.  This special placeholder sets the reform date above the largest year that
.\"O .B cal
.\"O can use; meaning all
.\"O calendar output uses the Julian calendar system.
- ユリウス歴のみを表示する。
これは
.B cal
が使用できる最大の年を、切り替え日以降に設定する
特別な代替物である。
つまり、すべてのカレンダー出力でユリウス歴体系を使う。
.PP
.\"O .RB See\  \%DESCRIPTION\  above.
上記の
.RB 「  説明 」
のセクションを参照。
.RE
.TP
\fB\-y\fR, \fB\-\-year\fR
.\"O Display a calendar for the whole year.
今年 1 年のカレンダーを表示する。
.TP
\fB\-Y, \fB\-\-twelve\fR
.\"O Display a calendar for the next twelve months.
次の 12 ヶ月のカレンダーを表示する。
.TP
\fB\-w\fR, \fB\-\-week\fR[=\fInumber\fR]
.\"O Display week numbers in the calendar (US or ISO-8601).
カレンダーに週番号を表示する (US または ISO-8601)。
.TP
\fB\-\-color\fR[=\fIwhen\fR]
.\"O Colorize the output.  The optional argument \fIwhen\fP
.\"O can be \fBauto\fR, \fBnever\fR or \fBalways\fR.  If the \fIwhen\fR argument is omitted,
.\"O it defaults to \fBauto\fR.  The colors can be disabled; for the current built-in default
.\"O see the \fB\-\-help\fR output.  See also the \fBCOLORS\fR section.
出力をカラー表示にする。
オプションの引数 \fIwhen\fP は、
\fBauto\fR, \fBnever\fR, \fBalways\fR のいずれかである。
\fIwhen\fR 引数が省略された場合、デフォルトは \fBauto\fR である。
カラー表示を無効化することもできる。
現在の組み込みのデフォルトは、 \fB\-\-help\fR の出力を参照すること。
「\fBカラー表示\fR」のセクションも参照すること。
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
.\"O Display version information and exit.
バージョン情報を表示して、終了する。
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
.\"O Display help text and exit.
ヘルプを表示して、終了する。
.\"O .SH PARAMETERS
.SH 引数
.TP
.\"O \fBSingle digits-only parameter (e.g. 'cal 2020')\fR
.\"O Specifies the \fIyear\fR to be displayed; note the year must be fully specified:
.\"O .B "cal 89"
.\"O will not display a calendar for 1989.
\fB1 つの数字のみの引数 (例 'cal 2020')\fR
表示したい \fI年\fR を指定する。
年を表す数字は全桁指定する必要がある。
.B "cal 89"
と指定しても 1989 のカレンダーは表示されない。
.TP
.\"O \fBSingle string parameter (e.g. 'cal tomorrow' or 'cal August')\fR
.\"O Specifies \fItimestamp\fR or a \fImonth name\fR (or abbreviated name) according to the current
.\"O locales.
\fB1 つの文字列の引数 (例 'cal tomorrow' または 'cal August')\fR
現在のロケールに基づいて、\fIタイムスタンプ\fR または
\fI月名\fR (または月の省略名) を指定する。
.sp
.\"O The special placeholders are accepted when parsing timestamp, "now" may be used
.\"O to refer to the current time, "today", "yesterday", "tomorrow" refer to of the
.\"O current day, the day before or the next day, respectively.
タイムスタンプを解析する際に、特別な別名も指定することができる。
"now" は現在時刻を指定するのに使われる。
"today", "yesterday", "tomorrow" は、
それぞれ、当日、前日、明日を指定する。
.sp
.\"O The relative date specifications are also accepted, in this case "+" is
.\"O evaluated to the current time plus the specified time span. Correspondingly, a
.\"O time span that is prefixed with "-" is evaluated to the current time minus the
.\"O specified time span, for example '+2days'. Instead of prefixing the time span
.\"O with "+" or "-", it may also be suffixed with a space and the word "left" or
.\"O "ago" (for example '1 week ago').
相対日付指定もできる。
この場合、 "+" は現在時刻に指定した時間を足す。
同様に、"-" は現在時刻から指定した時間を引く。
例えば、 '+2days' のように指定できる。
時間の前に "+" または "-" を置く代わりに、
空白と "left" または "ago" を後ろに付けることもできる
(例 '1 week ago')。
.TP
.\"O \fBTwo parameters (e.g. 'cal 11 2020')\fR
\fB2 つの引数 (例 'cal 11 2020')\fR
.\"O Denote the \fImonth\fR (1 - 12) and \fIyear\fR.
\fI月\fR (1 - 12) と \fI年\fR を指定する。
.TP
.\"O \fBThree parameters (e.g. 'cal 25 11 2020')\fR
\fB3 つの引数 (例 'cal 25 11 2020')\fR
.\"O Denote the \fIday\fR (1-31), \fImonth and \fIyear\fR, and the day will be
.\"O highlighted if the calendar is displayed on a terminal.  If no parameters are
.\"O specified, the current month's calendar is displayed.

\fI日\fR (1-31)、\fI月\fR、\fI年\fR を指定する。
カレンダーを端末上で表示した場合、当日はハイライトされる。
引数を指定しない場合、当月のカレンダーが表示される。
.\"O .SH NOTES
.SH 注意
.\"O A year starts on January 1.  The first day of the week is determined by the
.\"O locale or the
.\"O .BR \-\-sunday \ and \ \-\-monday \ options.
年は 1 月 1 日から始まる。
週の初めの日は、ロケールまたは
.BR \-\-sunday \ と \ \-\-monday
オプションで決まる。
.PP
.\"O The week numbering depends on the choice of the first day of the week.  If it
.\"O is Sunday then the customary North American numbering is used, where 1 January
.\"O is in week number 1.  If it is Monday then the ISO 8601 standard week numbering
.\"O is used, where the first Thursday is in week number 1.
週の番号付けは、週の初めの日の選択に依存する。
日曜を週の初めの日として、慣例的な北アメリカの番号付けを使っている場合、
1 月 1 日が週番号 1 となる。
月曜を週の初めの日として、ISO 8601 規格の番号付けを使っている場合、
最初の木曜日が週番号 1 となる。
.\"O .SH COLORS
.SH カラー表示
.\"O Implicit coloring can be disabled as follows:
暗黙のカラー表示は、以下のようにして無効化できる。
.RS

.br
.B touch /etc/terminal-colors.d/cal.disable
.br

.RE
.\"O See
.\"O .BR terminal-colors.d (5)
.\"O for more details about colorization configuration.
カラー設定の詳細は
.BR terminal-colors.d (5)
を参照すること。
.\"O .SH BUGS
.SH バグ
.PP
.\"O The default
.\"O .B cal
.\"O output uses 3 September 1752 as the Gregorian calendar reform date.  The
.\"O historical reform  dates for the other locales, including its introduction in
.\"O October 1582, are not implemented.
デフォルトの
.B cal
出力は 1752 年 9 月 3 日をグレゴリオ歴切り替え日とする。
1582 年 10 月の切り替えの開始を含む、他のロケールでの歴史的な切り替え日は
実装されていない。
.PP
.\"O Alternative calendars, such as the Umm al-Qura, the Solar Hijri, the Ge'ez,
.\"O or the lunisolar Hindu, are not supported.
ウンム・アルクアラー歴、太陽ヒジュラ歴、ゲエズ歴、
太陰太陽ヒンドゥー歴といった
他のカレンダーはサポートされていない。
.\"O .SH HISTORY
.SH 履歴
.\"O A cal command appeared in Version 6 AT&T UNIX.
cal コマンドは Version 6 AT&T UNIX で登場した。
.\"O .SH AVAILABILITY
.SH 入手方法
.\"O The cal command is part of the util-linux package and is available from
.\"O https://www.kernel.org/pub/linux/utils/util-linux/.
cal コマンドは、util-linux パッケージの一部であり、
https://www.kernel.org/pub/linux/utils/util-linux/
から入手できる。
