.\"
.\"  chfn.1 -- change your finger information
.\"  (c) 1994 by salvatore valente <svalente@athena.mit.edu>
.\"
.\"  This program is free software.  You can redistribute it and
.\"  modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License.
.\"  There is no warranty.
.\"
.\"  Japanese Version Copyright (c) 2001 Maki KURODA
.\"  all right reserved,
.\"  Translated Mon Feb 26 16:38:01 JST 2001
.\"  by Maki KURODA <mkuroda@mail.tsagrp.co.jp>
.\"  Updated & Modified Sat Jul 20 17:23:34 JST 2019
.\"          by Yuichi SATO <ysato@ybb.ne.jp>
.\"
.TH CHFN 1 "November 2015" "util-linux" "User Commands"
.\"O .SH NAME
.SH 名前
.\"O chfn \- change your finger information
chfn \- finger 情報を変更する。
.\"O .SH SYNOPSIS
.SH 書式
.B chfn
.RB [ \-f
.IR full-name ]
.RB [ \-o
.IR office ]
.RB [ \-p
.IR office-phone ]
.RB [ \-h
.IR home-phone ]
.RB [ \-u ]
.RB [ \-v ]
.RI [ username ]
.\"O .SH DESCRIPTION
.SH 説明
.\"O .B chfn
.\"O is used to change your finger information.  This information is
.\"O stored in the
.\"O .I /etc/passwd
.\"O file, and is displayed by the
.\"O .B finger
.\"O program.  The Linux
.\"O .B finger
.\"O command will display four pieces of information that can be changed by
.\"O .BR chfn :
.\"O your real name, your work room and phone, and your home phone.
.B chfn
は finger 情報を変更するために使用する。
この情報は
.I /etc/passwd
ファイルに記憶されていて、
.B finger
プログラムによって表示される。
Linux
.B finger
コマンドは
.B chfn
によって変更することが出来る
4 つの情報 (実名、勤務先、勤務先電話番号、自宅電話番号) を表示する。
.PP
.\"O Any of the four pieces of information can be specified on the command
.\"O line.  If no information is given on the command line,
.\"O .B chfn
.\"O enters interactive mode.
4 つの情報どれでもコマンド行に指定することができる。
コマンド行に与える情報がない場合、
.B chfn
は対話モードに入る。
.PP
.\"O In interactive mode,
.\"O .B chfn
.\"O will prompt for each field.  At a prompt, you can enter the new information,
.\"O or just press return to leave the field unchanged.  Enter the keyword
.\"O "none" to make the field blank.
対話モードでは、
.B chfn
各フィールド毎にプロンプトが出る。
プロンプトで、新しい情報を入力することができる、
また、ただリターンを押すだけでフィールドを変更せずに出ることができる。
フィールドを空白に設定するには "none" キーワードを入力する。
.PP
.\"O .B chfn
.\"O supports non-local entries (kerberos, LDAP, etc.\&) if linked with libuser,
.\"O otherwise use \fBypchfn\fR, \fBlchfn\fR or any other implementation for
.\"O non-local entries.
.B chfn
は libuser とリンクされていると、ローカルでないエントリ
(kerberos, LDAP など) をサポートする。
リンクされていない場合は、\fBypchfn\fR, \fBlchfn\fR
またはその他のローカルでないエントリの実装を使うこと。
.\"O .SH OPTIONS
.SH オプション
.TP
.BR \-f , " \-\-full\-name " \fIfull-name
.\"O Specify your real name.
実名を指定する。
.TP
.BR \-o , " \-\-office " \fIoffice
.\"O Specify your office room number.
勤務先住所を指定する。
.TP
.BR \-p , " \-\-office\-phone " \fIoffice-phone
.\"O Specify your office phone number.
勤務先電話番号を指定する。
.TP
.BR \-h , " \-\-home\-phone " \fIhome-phone
.\"O Specify your home phone number.
自宅電話番号を指定する。
.TP
.BR \-u , " \-\-help"
.\"O Display help text and exit.
ヘルプを表示して、終了する。
.TP
.BR \-v , " \-\-version"
.\"O Display version information and exit.
バージョン情報を表示して、終了する。
.\"O .SH CONFIG FILE ITEMS
.SH 設定ファイルのアイテム
.\"O .B chfn
.\"O reads the
.\"O .IR /etc\:/login.defs (5)
.\"O configuration file.  Note that the configuration file could be
.\"O distributed with another package (e.g. shadow-utils).  The following
.\"O configuration items are relevant for
.\"O .BR chfn (1):
.B chfn
は設定ファイル
.IR /etc\:/login.defs (5)
を読み込む。
この設定ファイルは他のパッケージ (例 shadow-utils) で
配布されているかもしれない。
以下の設定アイテムが
.BR chfn (1)
と関連する。
.PP
.BI CHFN_RESTRICT " string"
.RS 4
.\"O Indicate which fields are changeable by \fBchfn\fR.
どのフィールドが \fBchfn\fR で変更可能かを示す。

.\"O The boolean setting \fB"yes"\fR means that only the Office, Office Phone and
.\"O Home Phone fields are changeable, and boolean setting \fB"no"\fR means that
.\"O also the Full Name is changeable.
ブール値の設定 \fB"yes"\fR は、勤務先住所、勤務先電話番号、自宅電話番号の
フィールドが変更可能であることを示す。
ブール値の設定 \fB"no"\fR は、実名も変更であることを示す。

.\"O Another way to specify changeable fields is by abbreviations: f = Full Name,
.\"O r = Office (room), w = Office (work) Phone, h = Home Phone.  For example,
.\"O \fBCHFN_RESTRICT "wh"\fR allows changing work and home phone numbers.
変更可能なフィールドを指定する、もう 1 つの方法は省略形:
f = 実名 (full name), r = 勤務先住所 (room),
w = 勤務先 (work) 電話番号, h = 自宅 (home) 電話番号を使うことである。
例えば、\fBCHFN_RESTRICT "wh"\fR は、
勤務先電話番号と自宅電話番号を変更できる。

.\"O If CHFN_RESTRICT is undefined, then all finger information is read-only.
.\"O This is the default.
CHFN_RESTRICT が定義されていない場合、
すべての finger 情報は読み取り専用である。
これがデフォルトである。
.RE
.PP
.\"O .SH "EXIT STATUS"
.SH 返り値
.\"O Returns 0 if operation was successful, 1 if operation failed or command syntax was not valid.
操作が成功した場合、0 を返す。
操作が失敗した場合、またはコマンド書式が無効な場合、1を返す。
.\"O .SH "SEE ALSO"
.SH 関連項目
.BR chsh (1),
.BR finger (1),
.BR login.defs (5),
.BR passwd (5)
.\"O .SH AUTHOR
.SH 著者
Salvatore Valente <svalente@mit.edu>
.\"O .SH AVAILABILITY
.SH 入手方法
.\"O The chfn command is part of the util-linux package and is available from
.\"O https://www.kernel.org/pub/linux/utils/util-linux/.
chfn コマンドは、util-linux パッケージの一部であり、
https://www.kernel.org/pub/linux/utils/util-linux/
から入手できる。
