.\" chrt(1) manpage
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2004 Robert Love
.\" Copyright (C) 2015 Karel Zak <kzak@redhat.com>
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License,
.\" version 2, as published by the Free Software Foundation.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
.\" with this program; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc.,
.\" 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301 USA.
.\"
.\" Japanese Version Copyright (c) 2020 Yuichi SATO
.\"         all rights reserved.
.\" Translated Sun Apr  5 00:45:54 JST 2020
.\"         by Yuichi SATO <ysato444@ybb.ne.jp>
.\"
.TH CHRT 1 "January 2016" "util-linux" "User Commands"
.\"O .SH NAME
.SH 名前
.\"O chrt \- manipulate the real-time attributes of a process
chrt \- プロセスのリアルタイム属性を操作する
.\"O .SH SYNOPSIS
.SH 書式
.B chrt
[options]
.IR priority\ command\  [ argument ...]
.br
.B chrt
[options]
.B \-p
.RI [ priority ]\  pid
.\"O .SH DESCRIPTION
.SH 説明
.PP
.\"O .B chrt
.\"O sets or retrieves the real-time scheduling attributes of an existing \fIpid\fR,
.\"O or runs \fIcommand\fR with the given attributes.
.B chrt
は既存の \fIpid\fR のリアルタイムスケジューリング属性の設定または取得を行い、
指定した属性で \fIcommand\fR を実行する。

.\"O .SH POLICIES
.SH ポリシー
.TP
\fB\-o\fR, \fB\-\-other\fR
.\"O Set scheduling policy to
.\"O .BR SCHED_OTHER .
.\"O This is the default Linux scheduling policy.
スケジューリングポリシーを
.B SCHED_OTHER
にする。
これがデフォルトの Linux のスケジューリングポリシーである。
.TP
\fB\-f\fR, \fB\-\-fifo\fR
.\"O Set scheduling policy to \fBSCHED_FIFO\fR.
スケジューリングポリシーを \fBSCHED_FIFO\fR にする。
.TP
\fB\-r\fR, \fB\-\-rr\fR
.\"O Set scheduling policy to
.\"O .BR SCHED_RR .
.\"O When no policy is defined, the
.\"O .B SCHED_RR
.\"O is used as the default.
スケジューリングポリシーを
.B SCHED_RR
にする。
ポリシーが定義されていない場合、
.B SCHED_RR
がデフォルトとして使われる。
.TP
\fB\-b\fR, \fB\-\-batch\fR
.\"O Set scheduling policy to
.\"O .B SCHED_BATCH
.\"O (Linux-specific, supported since 2.6.16).  The priority argument has to be set to zero.
スケジューリングポリシーを
.B SCHED_BATCH
(Linux 固有で、2.6.16 以降でサポートされる) にする。
priority 引き数は 0 に設定される必要がある。
.TP
\fB\-i\fR, \fB\-\-idle\fR
.\"O Set scheduling policy to
.\"O .B SCHED_IDLE
.\"O (Linux-specific, supported since 2.6.23).  The priority argument has to be set to zero.
スケジューリングポリシーを
.B SCHED_IDLE
(Linux 固有で、2.6.23 以降でサポートされる) にする。
priority 引き数は 0 に設定される必要がある。
.TP
.BR -d ,\  --deadline
.\"O Set scheduling policy to
.\"O .B SCHED_DEADLINE
.\"O (Linux-specific, supported since 3.14).  The priority argument has to be set to zero.
スケジューリングポリシーを
.B SCHED_DEADLINE
(Linux 固有で、2.6.23 以降でサポートされる) にする。
priority 引き数は 0 に設定される必要がある。
.\"O See also \fB\-\-sched\-runtime\fR, \fB\-\-sched\-deadline\fR and
.\"O \fB\-\-sched\-period\fR.  The relation between the options required by the kernel is
.\"O runtime <= deadline <= period.
\fB\-\-sched\-runtime\fR, \fB\-\-sched\-deadline\fR,
\fB\-\-sched\-period\fR も参照すること。
カーネルに必要とされるオプションとの関係は、
runtime <= deadline <= period である。
.\"O .B chrt
.\"O copies \fIperiod\fR to \fIdeadline\fR if \fB\-\-sched\-deadline\fR is not specified and
.\"O \fIdeadline\fR to \fIruntime\fR if \fB\-\-sched\-runtime\fR is not specified.
.B chrt
は、\fB\-\-sched\-deadline\fR が指定されない場合、
\fIperiod\fR を \fIdeadline\fR にコピーする。
\fB\-\-sched\-runtime\fR が指定されない場合、
\fIdeadline\fR を \fIruntime\fR にコピーする。
.\"O It means that at least \fB\-\-sched\-period\fR has to be specified.  See
.\"O .BR sched (7)
.\"O for more details.
これは、少なくとも \fB\-\-sched\-period\fR が指定されなければならないことを意味する。
より詳細は
.BR sched (7)
を参照すること。

.\"O .SH "SCHEDULING OPTIONS"
.SH スケジューリングオプション
.TP
\fB\-T\fR, \fB\-\-sched\-runtime\fR \fInanoseconds\fR
.\"O Specifies runtime parameter for SCHED_DEADLINE policy (Linux-specific).
SCHED_DEADLINE ポリシーの runtime パラメータを指定する (Linux 固有)。
.TP
\fB\-P\fR, \fB\-\-sched\-period\fR \fInanoseconds\fR
.\"O Specifies period parameter for SCHED_DEADLINE policy (Linux-specific).
SCHED_DEADLINE ポリシーの period パラメータを指定する (Linux 固有)。
.TP
\fB\-D\fR, \fB\-\-sched\-deadline\fR \fInanoseconds\fR
.\"O Specifies deadline parameter for SCHED_DEADLINE policy (Linux-specific).
SCHED_DEADLINE ポリシーの deadline パラメータを指定する (Linux 固有)。
.TP
\fB\-R\fR, \fB\-\-reset-on-fork\fR
.\"O Add
.\"O .B SCHED_RESET_ON_FORK
.\"O flag to the
.\"O .B SCHED_FIFO
.\"O or
.\"O .B SCHED_RR
.\"O scheduling policy (Linux-specific, supported since 2.6.31).
.B SCHED_FIFO
または
.B SCHED_RR
スケジューリングポリシーに、
.B SCHED_RESET_ON_FORK
フラグを追加する (Linux 固有で、2.6.31 以降でサポートされる)。

.\"O .SH OPTIONS
.SH オプション
.TP
.BR -a ,\  --all-tasks
.\"O Set or retrieve the scheduling attributes of all the tasks (threads) for a
.\"O given PID.
指定された PID の全てのタスク (スレッド) のスケジューリング属性を、
設定または取得する。
.TP
.BR -m ,\  --max
.\"O Show minimum and maximum valid priorities, then exit.
有効な priority の最小値と最大値を表示して、終了する。
.TP
.BR -p ,\  --pid
.\"O Operate on an existing PID and do not launch a new task.
既存の PID に対して操作を行い、新しいタスクを起動しない。
.TP
.BR -v ,\  --verbose
.\"O Show status information.
ステータス情報を表示する。
.TP
.BR -V ,\  --version
.\"O Display version information and exit.
バージョン情報を表示して、終了する。
.TP
.BR -h ,\  --help
.\"O Display help text and exit.
ヘルプを表示して、終了する。
.\"O .SH USAGE
.SH 使用法
.TP
.\"O The default behavior is to run a new command:
デフォルトの挙動は、新しいコマンドを実行することである:
.B chrt
.I priority
.IR command\  [ arguments ]
.TP
.\"O You can also retrieve the real-time attributes of an existing task:
既存のタスクのリアルタイム属性を取得することもできる:
.B chrt \-p
.I pid
.TP
.\"O Or set them:
または、リアルタイム属性の設定を行う:
.B chrt \-r \-p
.I priority pid
.\"O .SH PERMISSIONS
.SH 権限
.\"O A user must possess
.\"O .B CAP_SYS_NICE
.\"O to change the scheduling attributes of a process.  Any user can retrieve the
.\"O scheduling information.
ユーザーは、プロセスのスケジューリング属性を変更するために、
.B CAP_SYS_NICE
権限を持っている必要がある。
どのようなユーザーでも、スケジューリング情報を取得できる。

.\"O .SH NOTES
.SH 注意
.\"O Only
.\"O .BR SCHED_FIFO ,
.\"O .B SCHED_OTHER
.\"O and
.\"O .B SCHED_RR
.\"O are part of POSIX 1003.1b Process Scheduling.  The other scheduling attributes
.\"O may be ignored on some systems.
.BR SCHED_FIFO ,
.BR SCHED_OTHER ,
.B SCHED_RR
のみが、POSIX 1003.1b プロセススケジューリングの一部である。
システムによっては、他のスケジューリング属性は無視されるかもしれない。
.P
.\"O Linux' default scheduling policy is
.\"O .BR SCHED_OTHER .
Linux のデフォルトのスケジューリングポリシーは
.B SCHED_OTHER
である。
.\"O .SH SEE ALSO
.SH 関連項目
.BR nice (1),
.BR renice (1),
.BR taskset (1),
.BR sched (7)
.sp
.\"O See
.\"O .BR sched_setscheduler (2)
.\"O for a description of the Linux scheduling scheme.
Linux のスケジューリングの概要説明は、
.BR sched_setscheduler (2)
を参照すること。
.\"O .SH AUTHORS
.SH 著者
.UR rml@tech9.net
Robert Love
.UE
.br
.UR kzak@redhat.com
Karel Zak
.UE
.\"O .SH AVAILABILITY
.SH 入手方法
.\"O The chrt command is part of the util-linux package and is available from
.\"O https://www.kernel.org/pub/linux/utils/util-linux/.
chrt コマンドは util-linux パッケージの一部であり、
https://www.kernel.org/pub/linux/utils/util-linux/
から入手できる。
