.\" Copyright (c) 1990 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This code is derived from software contributed to Berkeley by
.\" Michael Rendell.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)col.1	6.8 (Berkeley) 6/17/91
.\"
.\" Japanese Version Copyright (c) 2001 Yuichi SATO
.\"         all rights reserved.
.\" Translated Sun Mar 3 1995
.\"         by NetBSD jman proj. <jman@spa.is.uec.ac.jp>
.\" Updated Sun Jan  7 21:36:58 JST 2001
.\"         by Yuichi SATO <sato@complex.eng.hokudai.ac.jp>
.\" Updated Sat Jul 20 19:48:04 JST 2019
.\"         by Yuichi SATO <ysato444@ybb.ne.jp>
.\"
.\"WORD:	line feed		改行
.\"WORD:	carrige return		復帰
.\"
.TH COL "1" "July 2014" "util-linux" "User Commands"
.\"O .SH NAME
.SH 名前
.\"O col \- filter reverse line feeds from input
col \- 入力中にある逆改行コードを処理するフィルタ
.\"O .SH SYNOPSIS
.SH 書式
.B col
[options]
.\"O .SH DESCRIPTION
.SH 説明
.\"O .B col
.\"O filters out reverse (and half-reverse) line feeds so the output is in the
.\"O correct order, with only forward and half-forward line feeds.  It also replaces
.\"O any whitespace characters with tabs where possible.  This can be useful in
.\"O processing the output of
.\"O .BR nroff (1)
.\"O and
.\"O .BR tbl (1).
.B col
は、逆方向への改行および半改行を取り除き、
通常の改行方向だけで出力可能なものに変換する。
同時に、可能な限り空白文字部分をタブに置き換える処理をする。
これは、
.BR nroff (1)
や
.BR tbl (1)
の出力を処理するのに役立つ。
.PP
.\"O .B col
.\"O reads from standard input and writes to standard output.
.B col
は、データを標準入力から読み込み、標準出力に書き出す。
.\"O .SH OPTIONS
.SH オプション
.TP
\fB\-b\fR, \fB\-\-no\-backspaces\fR
.\"O Do not output any backspaces, printing only the last character written to
.\"O each column position.
バックスペースを出力しないようにする。
(訳註: 同じ箇所に複数の文字が書かれる場合は)
行中のその箇所に最後に書かれた文字だけを表示する。
.TP
\fB\-f\fR, \fB\-\-fine\fR
.\"O Permit half-forward line feeds.
.\"O Normally characters destined for a half-line boundary are printed on the
.\"O following line.
半改行を含めることを許可する。
通常、行と行の境界に表示されることになる文字は、
次の行に表示される。
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-tabs\fR
.\"O Output tabs instead of multiple spaces.
複数個の空白文字のかわりにタブを出力する。
.TP
\fB\-l\fR, \fB\-\-lines\fR \fInumber\fR
.\"O Buffer at least
.\"O .I number
.\"O lines in memory.  By default, 128 lines are buffered.
メモリ上に、少なくとも
.I number
行分をバッファする。
デフォルトでは 128 行分がバッファされる。
.TP
\fB\-p\fR, \fB\-\-pass\fR
.\"O Force unknown control sequences to be passed through unchanged.  Normally
.\"O .B col
.\"O will filter out any control sequences other than those
.\"O recognized and interpreted by itself, which are listed below.
不明なコントロール文字を変更せずに表示する。
通常
.B col
は、以下に挙げるような認識・解釈できる
コントロール文字でなければ、その文字を入力から取り除く。
.TP
\fB\-x\fR, \fB\-\-spaces\fR
.\"O Output multiple spaces instead of tabs.
タブのかわりに複数個の空白文字を出力する。
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
.\"O Display version information and exit.
バージョン情報を表示して、終了する。
.TP
\fB\-H\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
.\"O Display help text and exit.
ヘルプを表示して、終了する。
.\"O .SH NOTES
.SH 注意
.\"O The control sequences for carriage motion that
.\"O .B col
.\"O understands and their decimal values are listed in the following table:
.B col
が認識する復帰動作のためのコントロール文字と、
その文字の 10 進数での値を以下の表に示す:
.PP
.RS
.PD 0
.TP 18
.B ESC\-7
.\"O reverse line feed (escape then 7)
逆方向に改行する (エスケープの後に 7)
.TP
.B ESC\-8
.\"O half reverse line feed (escape then 8)
逆方向に半改行する (エスケープの後に 8)
.TP
.B ESC\-9
.\"O half forward line feed (escape then 9)
通常方向に半改行する (エスケープの後に 9)
.TP
.B backspace
.\"O moves back one column (8); ignored in the first column
逆方向に 1 カラム分戻す (8)。最初のカラムでは無視される
.TP
.B newline
.\"O forward line feed (10); also does carriage return
通常方向に改行する (10)。行頭への復帰も行う
.TP
.B carriage return
.\"O (13)
行頭に復帰する (13)
.TP
.B shift in
.\"O shift to normal character set (15)
通常の文字セットを選択する (15)
.TP
.B shift out
.\"O shift to alternate character set (14)
特別な文字セットを選択する (14)
.TP
.B space
.\"O moves forward one column (32)
通常方向に 1 カラム分に移動する (32)
.TP
.B tab
.\"O moves forward to next tab stop (9)
次のタブ位置へ移動する (9)
.TP
.B vertical tab
.\"O reverse line feed (11)
逆方向に改行する (11)
.PD
.RE
.PP
.\"O All unrecognized control characters and escape sequences are discarded.
col が認識できないコントロール文字およびエスケープシーケンスは削除される。
.PP
.\"O .B col
.\"O keeps track of the character set as characters are read and makes sure the
.\"O character set is correct when they are output.
.B col
は文字列を読み込みながら追って行き、
出力する際に正しいかを確認する。
.PP
.\"O If the input attempts to back up to the last flushed line,
.\"O .B col
.\"O will display a warning message.
すでに出力してしまった行を超えて戻るような逆改行の処理が入った場合、
.B col
は警告メッセージを表示する。
.\"O .SH SEE ALSO
.SH 関連項目
.BR expand (1),
.BR nroff (1),
.BR tbl (1)
.\"O .SH STANDARDS
.SH 準拠
.\"O The
.\"O .B col
.\"O utility conforms to the Single UNIX Specification, Version 2.  The
.\"O .B \-l
.\"O option is an extension to the standard.
.B col
ユーティリティは Single UNIX Specification, Version 2 に従う。
.B \-l
オプションは、この規格を拡張したものである。
.\"O .SH HISTORY
.SH 履歴
.\"O A
.\"O .B col
.\"O command appeared in Version 6 AT&T UNIX.
.B col
コマンドは
Version 6 AT&T UNIX
から登場した。
.\"O .SH AVAILABILITY
.SH 入手方法
.\"O The col command is part of the util-linux package and is available from
.\"O .UR https://\:www.kernel.org\:/pub\:/linux\:/utils\:/util-linux/
.\"O Linux Kernel Archive
.\"O .UE .
chfn コマンドは、util-linux パッケージの一部であり、
.UR https://\:www.kernel.org\:/pub\:/linux\:/utils\:/util-linux/
Linux Kernel Archive
.UE
から入手できる。
