.\" Copyright (c) 1980, 1990, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)colcrt.1	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/30/93
.\"
.\" Translated 27 Mar 1997
.\"         by FreeBSD jpman project <man-jp@jp.FreeBSD.org>
.\" Updated & Modified Sat Jul 20 20:43:48 JST 2019
.\"         by Yuichi SATO <ysato444@ybb.ne.jp>
.\"
.TH COLCRT "1" "September 2011" "util-linux" "User Commands"
.\"O .SH NAME
.SH 名前
.\"O colcrt \- filter nroff output for CRT previewing
colcrt \- nroff の出力を CRT で表示するためのフィルタ
.\"O .SH SYNOPSIS
.SH 書式
.B colcrt
[options]
.RI [ file ...]
.\"O .SH DESCRIPTION
.SH 説明
.\"O .B colcrt
.\"O provides virtual half-line and reverse line feed sequences for terminals
.\"O without such capability, and on which overstriking is destructive.
.\"O Half-line characters and underlining (changed to dashing `\-') are placed on
.\"O new lines in between the normal output lines.
.B colcrt
は、半改行、逆改行の能力を持たず、重ね打ちで表示が壊れる端末に、
仮想的にその機能を提供する。
半改行文字と下線 (ダッシュ`-' に置換される) は、通常の出力行の間に
新しい行をもうけて出力する。
.\"O .SH OPTIONS
.SH オプション
.TP
\fB\-\fR, \fB\-\-no\-underlining\fR
.\"O Suppress all underlining.  This option is especially useful for previewing
.\"O .I allboxed
.\"O tables from
.\"O .BR tbl (1).
下線を出力しない。
このオプションは特に
.BR tbl (1)
の
.I allbox
で描かれた表を表示するのに便利である。
.TP
\fB\-2\fR, \fB\-\-half\-lines\fR
.\"O Causes all half-lines to be printed, effectively double spacing the output.
.\"O Normally, a minimal space output format is used which will suppress empty
.\"O lines.  The program never suppresses two consecutive empty lines, however.
すべての行に半改行があるように出力する。
実質的には、1 行おきに出力されることになる。
通常は半改行のない行で余分な改行を出力しない。
ただし、二つの連続した空行は省略されない。
.\"O The
.\"O .B \-2
.\"O option is useful for sending output to the line printer when the output
.\"O contains superscripts and subscripts which would otherwise be invisible.
.B \-2
オプションは上付き、あるいは下付き文字が含まれていて、
それらを印字できないラインプリンタに対して出力する時に便利である。
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
.\"O Display version information and exit.
バージョン情報を表示して、終了する。
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
.\"O Display help text and exit.
ヘルプを表示して、終了する。
.\"O .SH EXAMPLES
.SH 使用例
.\"O A typical use of
.\"O .B colcrt
.\"O would be:
.B colcrt
の典型的な利用法は、以下のとおりである。
.PP
.RS
.B tbl exum2.n \&| nroff \-ms \&| colcrt \- \&| more
.RE
.\"O .SH SEE ALSO
.SH 関連項目
.BR col (1),
.BR more (1),
.BR nroff (1),
.BR troff (1),
.BR ul (1)
.\"O .SH BUGS
.SH バグ
.\"O Should fold underlines onto blanks even with the
.\"O .B '\-'
.\"O option so that a true underline character would show.
.B '\-'
オプションが指定されたときにも、空白部分の下線文字を書き、
下線文字を表示すべきである。
.PP
.\"O Can't back up more than 102 lines.
102 行以上の行を遡って処理できない。
.PP
.\"O General overstriking is lost; as a special case '|' overstruck with '\-' or
.\"O underline becomes '+'.
一般に、重ね打ちの効果は失われる。
特殊なケースとして、'|' が '\-' や下線と重ね打ちされる場合には、'+' になる。
.PP
.\"O Lines are trimmed to 132 characters.
各行は 132 文字で切り捨てられる。
.PP
.\"O Some provision should be made for processing superscripts and subscripts in
.\"O documents which are already double-spaced.
すでに 1 行おきになっている文書では、上付き、下付き文字に対する対処が必要である。
.\"O .SH HISTORY
.SH 履歴
.\"O The
.\"O .B colcrt
.\"O command appeared in 3.0BSD.
.B colcrt
は 3.0BSD から登場した。
.\"O .SH AVAILABILITY
.SH 入手方法
.\"O The colcrt command is part of the util-linux package and is available from
.\"O .UR https://\:www.kernel.org\:/pub\:/linux\:/utils\:/util-linux/
.\"O Linux Kernel Archive
.\"O .UE .
colcrt コマンドは、util-linux パッケージの一部であり、
.UR https://\:www.kernel.org\:/pub\:/linux\:/utils\:/util-linux/
Linux Kernel Archive
.UE
から入手できる。
