.\" Copyright (c) 1980, 1990 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)colrm.1	6.6 (Berkeley) 3/14/91
.\"
.\" %FreeBSD: src/usr.bin/colrm/colrm.1,v 1.3.2.3 2001/08/16 13:16:45 ru Exp %
.\" $FreeBSD: doc/ja_JP.eucJP/man/man1/colrm.1,v 1.5 2001/07/29 05:14:50 horikawa Exp $
.\" Updated Fri May 13 JST 2005 by Kentaro Shirakata <argrath@ub32.org>
.\" Updated & Modified Sat Jul 20 21:48:07 JST 2019
.\"         by Yuichi SATO <ysato444@ybb.ne.jp>
.\"
.TH COLRM "1" "September 2011" "util-linux" "User Commands"
.\"O .SH NAME
.SH 名前
.\"O colrm \- remove columns from a file
colrm \- 指定した桁を削除する
.\"O .SH SYNOPSIS
.SH 書式
.B colrm
.RI [ first \ [ last ]]
.\"O .SH DESCRIPTION
.SH 説明
.\"O .B colrm
.\"O removes selected columns from a file.  Input is taken from standard input.
.\"O Output is sent to standard output.
.B colrm
は、指定された桁をファイルの各行から削除する。
ファイルは標準入力から読み込まれ、結果は標準出力に書き出される。
.PP
.\"O If called with one parameter the columns of each line will be removed
.\"O starting with the specified
.\"O .I first
.\"O column.  If called with two parameters the columns from the
.\"O .I first
.\"O column to the
.\"O .I last
.\"O column will be removed.
引数一つだけが与えられた場合は、
指定された
.I first
の桁以降のすべての桁が削除される。
二つの引数が指定された場合は、
.I first
の桁と
.I last
の桁の間の桁が削除される。
.PP
.\"O Column numbering starts with column 1.
桁の番号づけは 1 から始まる。
.\"O .SH OPTIONS
.SH オプション
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
.\"O Display version information and exit.
バージョン情報を表示して、終了する。
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
.\"O Display help text and exit.
ヘルプを表示して、終了する。
.\"O .SH SEE ALSO
.SH 関連項目
.BR awk (1),
.BR column (1),
.BR expand (1),
.BR paste (1)
.\"O .SH HISTORY
.SH 履歴
.\"O The
.\"O .B colrm
.\"O command appeared in 3.0BSD.
.B colrm
コマンドは 3.0BSD から登場した。
.\"O .SH AVAILABILITY
.SH 入手方法
.\"O The colrm command is part of the util-linux package and is available from
.\"O .UR https://\:www.kernel.org\:/pub\:/linux\:/utils\:/util-linux/
.\"O Linux Kernel Archive
.\"O .UE .
colrm コマンドは、util-linux パッケージの一部であり、
.UR https://\:www.kernel.org\:/pub\:/linux\:/utils\:/util-linux/
Linux Kernel Archive
.UE
から入手できる。
