.\" Copyright (c) 1989, 1990, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)column.1	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/6/93
.\"
.\" %FreeBSD: src/usr.bin/column/column.1,v 1.5.2.4 2001/08/16 13:16:46 ru Exp %
.\" $FreeBSD: doc/ja_JP.eucJP/man/man1/column.1,v 1.9 2001/08/19 10:25:03 horikawa Exp $
.\"
.\" Updated & Modified Mon Jul 22 20:37:15 JST 2019
.\"         by Yuichi SATO <ysato@ybb.ne.jp>
.\"
.TH COLUMN 1 "February 2019" "util-linux" "User Commands"
.\"O .SH NAME
.SH 名前
.\"O column \- columnate lists
column \- 入力を複数列に整形する
.\"O .SH SYNOPSIS
.SH 書式
.BR column " [options]"
.RI [ file ...]
.\"O .SH DESCRIPTION
.SH 説明
.\"O The
.\"O .B column
.\"O utility formats its input into multiple columns.  The util support three modes:
.B column
ユーティリティは、入力を複数カラムに分けて整形する。
このユーティリティは 3 つのモードをサポートする。
.TP
.\"O .B columns are filled before rows
.B 行より先に列を埋める。
.\"O This is the default mode (required by backward compatibility).
これがデフォルトのモードである (後方互換のため必要である)。
.TP
.\"O .B rows are filled before columns
.B 列より先に行を埋める。
.\"O This mode is enabled by option \fB-x, \-\-fillrows\fP
このモードはオプション \fB-x, \-\-fillrows\fP で有効にされる。
.TP
.\"O .B table
.B テーブル
.\"O Determine the number of columns the input contains and create a table.  This
.\"O mode is enabled by option \fB-t, \-\-table\fP and columns formatting is
.\"O possible to modify by \fB\-\-table-*\fP options.  Use this mode if not sure.
入力が含まれる列数を決めて、テーブルを作成する。
このモードはオプション \fB-t, \-\-table\fP で有効にされ、
列のフォーマットは \fB\-\-table-*\fP オプションで修正できる。
使い方が良く分からない場合、このモードを使うこと。
.PP
.\"O Input is taken from \fIfile\fR, or otherwise from standard input.  Empty lines
.\"O are ignored and all invalid multibyte sequences are encoded by \\x<hex> convention.
入力は \fIfile\fR から取得される。
\fIfile\fR が指定されない場合、標準入力から取得される。
空行は無視され、無効なマルチバイトシーケンスは、\\x<hex> 形式にエンコードされる。
.PP
.\"O .SH OPTIONS
.SH オプション
.\"O The argument \fIcolumns\fP for \fB\-\-table-*\fP options is comma separated
.\"O list of the column names as defined by \fB\-\-table-columns\fP or it's column
.\"O number in order as specified by input. It's possible to mix names and numbers.
\fB\-\-table-*\fP オプションの引数 \fIcolumns\fP は
カンマ区切りで、\fB\-\-table-columns\fP で定義される列名リスト、
または入力で指定された列番号のリストである。
列名と列番号を混ぜて使うこともできる。
.PP
.IP "\fB\-J, \-\-json\fP"
.\"O Use JSON output format to print the table, the option
.\"O \fB\-\-table\-columns\fP is required and the option \fB\-\-table\-name\fP is recommended.
テーブルの表示に、JSON 出力フォーマットを使う。
オプション \fB\-\-table\-columns\fP が必要で、
オプション \fB\-\-table\-name\fP が推奨される。
.IP "\fB\-c, \-\-output\-width\fP \fIwidth\fP"
.\"O Output is formatted to a width specified as number of characters. The original
.\"O name of this option is --columns; this name is deprecated since v2.30. Note that input
.\"O longer than \fIwidth\fP is not truncated by default.
指定した文字数の幅で出力をフォーマットする。
このオプションの元の名前は、--columns であった。
この名前は v2.30 から廃止された。
\fIwidth\fP より長い入力はデフォルトでは切り詰められる点に注意すること。
.IP "\fB\-d, \-\-table\-noheadings\fP"
.\"O Do not print header. This option allows to use logical column names on command line, but keep the header hidden when print the table.
ヘッダを表示しない。
このオプションは、コマンドラインでは論理的な列名を使い、
テーブルの表示時にはヘッダを隠すことができる。
.IP "\fB\-o, \-\-output\-separator\fP \fIstring\fP"
.\"O Specify the columns delimiter for table output (default is two spaces).
テーブル出力の列の区切り文字を指定する
(デフォルトはスペース 2 個である)。
.IP "\fB\-s, \-\-separator\fP \fIseparators\fP"
.\"O Specify the possible input item delimiters (default is whitespace).
入力アイテムの区切り文字を指定する
(デフォルトは空白である)。
.IP "\fB\-t, \-\-table\fP"
.\"O Determine the number of columns the input contains and create a table.
入力が含まれる列数を決めて、テーブルを作成する。
.\"O Columns are delimited with whitespace, by default, or with the characters
.\"O supplied using the \fB\-\-output\-separator\fP option.
デフォルトでは列は空白で区切られる。
\fB\-\-output\-separator\fP オプションを使って、
指定した文字で区切ることもできる。
.\"O Table output is useful for pretty-printing.
テーブル出力は綺麗に表示するのに便利である。
.IP "\fB\-N, \-\-table-columns\fP \fInames\fP"
.\"O Specify the columns names by comma separated list of names. The names are used
.\"O for the table header or to address column in option arguments.
列名をカンマ区切りの名前のリストで指定する。
この名前はテーブルヘッダに使われたり、オプション引数の列を
示すために使われる。
.IP "\fB\-R, \-\-table-right\fP \fIcolumns\fP"
.\"O Right align text in the specified columns.
指定した列を右詰めテキストにする。
.IP "\fB\-T, \-\-table-truncate\fP \fIcolumns\fP"
.\"O Specify columns where is allowed to truncate text when necessary, otherwise
.\"O very long table entries may be printed on multiple lines.
指定した列について、必要な場合は切り詰めを許可する。
指定しない場合、とても長いテーブルのエントリは、
複数行に表示される。
.IP "\fB\-E, \-\-table-noextreme\fP \fIcolumns\fP"
.\"O Specify columns where is possible to ignore unusually long (longer than
.\"O average) cells when calculate column width.  The option has impact to the width
.\"O calculation and table formatting, but the printed text is not affected.
列幅を計算する際に、通常ではなく長い (平均より長い) セルとして、
無視可能な列を指定する。
このオプションは、幅の計算とテーブルの整形に影響するが、
表示されるテキストには影響しない。

.\"O The option is used for the last visible column by default.
このオプションは、デフォルトでは、最後の (訳注: 一番右の) 表示列に使われる。

.IP "\fB\-e, \-\-table\-header\-repeat\fP"
.\"O Print header line for each page.
各ページにヘッダ行を表示する。
.IP "\fB\-W, \-\-table-wrap\fP \fIcolumns\fP"
.\"O Specify columns where is possible to use multi-line cell for long text when
.\"O necessary.
長いテキストの表示に必要な場合に、複数行のセルを使ってもよい列を
指定する。
.IP "\fB\-H, \-\-table-hide\fP \fIcolumns\fP"
.\"O Don't print specified columns. The special placeholder '-' may be used to
.\"O hide all unnamed columns (see --table-columns).
指定した列を表示しない。
名前のない列をすべて隠す場合、特別な代用文字 '-' を使うことができる。
.IP "\fB\-O, \-\-table-order\fP \fIcolumns\fP"
.\"O Specify columns order on output.
出力される列の順番を指定する。
.IP "\fB\-n, \-\-table-name\fP \fIname\fP"
.\"O Specify the table name used for JSON output. The default is "table".
JSON 出力で使われるテーブル名を指定する。
デフォルトは "table" である。
.IP "\fB\-L, \-\-table\-empty\-lines\fP"
.\"O Insert empty line to the table for each empty line on input. The default
.\"O is ignore empty lines at all.
入力の空行について、テーブルに空行を挿入する。
デフォルトでは空行を無視する。
.IP "\fB\-r, \-\-tree\fP \fIcolumn\fP"
.\"O Specify column to use tree-like output. Note that the circular dependencies and
.\"O another anomalies in child and parent relation are silently ignored.
ツリー状の出力に使う列を指定する。
親子関係における循環依存やその他の例外は、暗黙のうちに無視される。
.IP "\fB\-i, \-\-tree\-id\fP \fIcolumn\fP"
.\"O Specify column with line ID to create child-parent relation.
親子関係を生成するために、行 ID が含まれる列を指定する。
.IP "\fB\-p, \-\-tree\-parent\fP \fIcolumn\fP"
.\"O Specify column with parent ID to create child-parent relation.
親子関係を生成するために、親 ID が含まれる列を指定する。
.PP
.IP "\fB\-x, \-\-fillrows\fP"
.\"O Fill rows before filling columns.
列を埋める前に行を埋める。
.IP "\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR"
.\"O Display version information and exit.
バージョン情報を表示して、終了する。
.IP "\fB\-h, \-\-help\fP"
.\"O Display help text and exit.
ヘルプを表示して、終了する。
.\"O .SH ENVIRONMENT
.SH 環境変数
.\"O The environment variable \fBCOLUMNS\fR is used to determine the size of
.\"O the screen if no other information is available.
他に情報が得られない場合、画面の幅を決定するために環境変数 \fBCOLUMNS\fR が使われる。
.\"O .SH EXAMPLES
.SH 例
.\"O Print fstab with header line and align number to the right:
fstab をヘッダ行付けて、数値を右詰めで表示する。
.EX
\fBsed 's/#.*//' /etc/fstab | column --table --table-columns SOURCE,TARGET,TYPE,OPTIONS,PASS,FREQ --table-right PASS,FREQ\fR
.EE
.PP
.\"O Print fstab and hide unnamed columns:
名前なしの列は隠して、fstab を表示する。
.EX
\fBsed 's/#.*//' /etc/fstab | column --table --table-columns SOURCE,TARGET,TYPE --table-hide -\fR
.EE
.PP

.PP
.\"O Print a tree:
ツリーを表示する。
.EX
\fBecho -e '1 0 A\\n2 1 AA\\n3 1 AB\\n4 2 AAA\\n5 2 AAB' | column --tree-id 1 --tree-parent 2 --tree 3\fR
1  0  A
2  1  |-AA
4  2  | |-AAA
5  2  | `-AAB
3  1  `-AB
.EE
.\"O .SH BUGS
.SH バグ
.\"O Version 2.23 changed the
.\"O .B \-s
.\"O option to be non-greedy, for example:
バージョン 2.23 で
.B \-s
オプションの動作を、欲張りでなくした (non-greedy)
(訳注: 値が指定されない場合に、後続の値を利用しないようにした)。
例:
.PP
.EX
\fBprintf "a:b:c\\n1::3\\n" | column  -t -s ':'\fR
.EE
.PP
.\"O Old output:
昔の出力:
.EX
a  b  c
1  3
.EE
.PP
.\"O New output (since util-linux 2.23):
新しい出力 (util-linux 2.23 以降):
.EX
a  b  c
1     3
.EE
.PP
.\"O Historical versions of this tool indicated that "rows are filled before
.\"O columns" by default, and that the
.\"O .B \-x
.\"O option reverses this. This wording did not reflect the actual behavior, and it
.\"O has since been corrected (see above). Other implementations of
.\"O .B column
.\"O may continue to use the older documentation, but the behavior should be
.\"O identical in any case.
.\"Osato:
.\"Osato: この訳文はあまり自信がない。
.\"Osato: 
このツールの歴史的なバージョンでは、デフォルトでは
「列より先に行を埋める」ことになっており、
.B \-x
オプションで動作を逆にすることになっている。
しかし、この言葉は実際の動作を反映していなかったので、
修正を行った (上記を参照)。
他の
.B column
実装は古いドキュメントを使い続けているかもしれないが、
動作はどの場合でも同じである。
.\"O .SH "SEE ALSO"
.SH 関連項目
.BR colrm (1),
.BR ls (1),
.BR paste (1),
.BR sort (1)
.\"O .SH HISTORY
.SH 履歴
.\"O The column command appeared in 4.3BSD-Reno.
column コマンドは 4.3BSD-Reno から登場した。
.\"O .SH AVAILABILITY
.SH 入手方法
.\"O The column command is part of the util-linux package and is available from
.\"O https://www.kernel.org/pub/linux/utils/util-linux/.
column コマンドは、util-linux パッケージの一部であり、
https://www.kernel.org/pub/linux/utils/util-linux/
から入手できる。
