.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\"   Copyright 2003-2006 H. Peter Anvin - All Rights Reserved
.\"
.\"   Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person
.\"   obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation
.\"   files (the "Software"), to deal in the Software without
.\"   restriction, including without limitation the rights to use,
.\"   copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or
.\"   sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom
.\"   the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following
.\"   conditions:
.\"
.\"   The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall
.\"   be included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
.\"
.\"   THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
.\"   EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES
.\"   OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND
.\"   NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT
.\"   HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY,
.\"   WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
.\"   FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\"   OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" -----------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" Japanese Version Copyright (c) 2005 Yuichi SATO
.\"         all rights reserved.
.\" Translated Tue May 10 04:32:35 JST 2005
.\"         by Yuichi SATO <ysato444@yahoo.co.jp>
.\" Updated & Modified Tue Jul 23 23:49:20 JST 2019
.\"         by Yuichi SATO <ysato444@ybb.ne.jp>
.\"
.TH FLOCK 1 "July 2014" "util-linux" "User Commands"
.\"O .SH NAME
.SH 名前
.\"O flock \- manage locks from shell scripts
flock \- シェルスクリプトからロックを管理する。
.\"O .SH SYNOPSIS
.SH 書式
.B flock
[options]
.IR file | "directory command " [ arguments ]
.br
.B flock
[options]
.IR file | directory
.BI \-c " command"
.br
.B flock
.RI [options] " number"
.\"O .SH DESCRIPTION
.SH 説明
.PP
.\"O This utility manages
.\"O .BR flock (2)
.\"O locks from within shell scripts or from the command line.
このユーティリティは
.BR flock (2)
のロックをシェルスクリプト内、またはコマンドラインから管理する。
.PP
.\"O The first and second of the above forms wrap the lock around the execution of a
.\"O .IR command ,
.\"O in a manner similar to
.\"O .BR su (1)
.\"O or
.\"O .BR newgrp (1).
上記の 1 番目と 2 番目の形式は、
.BR su (1)
または
.BR newgrp (1)
と同じような方式で、
.I command
実行時のロックの取得をラップする。
.\"O They lock a specified \fIfile\fR or \fIdirectory\fR, which is created (assuming
.\"O appropriate permissions) if it does not already exist.  By default, if the
.\"O lock cannot be immediately acquired,
.\"O .B flock
.\"O waits until the lock is available.
これらのコマンドは指定された \fIfile\fR または \fIdirectory\fR を、
もし存在しない場合は (適切な権限があれば) 作成を行ってから、ロックする。
デフォルトでは、
.B flock
はロックを即時に取得するのではなく、ロックが可能になるまで待つ。
.PP
.\"O The third form uses an open file by its file descriptor \fInumber\fR.
3 番目の形式では、ファイルディスクリプター \fInumber\fR の
オープンされたファイルを使う。
.\"O See the examples below for how that can be used.
どのように使うかは、下記の例を参照すること。
.\"O .SH OPTIONS
.SH オプション
.TP
.BR \-c , " \-\-command " \fIcommand
.\"O Pass a single \fIcommand\fR, without arguments, to the shell with
.\"O .BR \-c .
引数なしの 1 つの \fIcommand\fR を、シェルに
.B \-c
オプションを付けて渡す。
.TP
.BR \-E , " \-\-conflict\-exit\-code " \fInumber
.\"O The exit code used when the \fB\-n\fP option is in use, and the
.\"O conflicting lock exists, or the \fB\-w\fP option is in use,
.\"O and the timeout is reached.  The default value is \fB1\fR.
\fB\-n\fP オプションが使われて、ロック競合が起こった場合、
または、\fB\-w\fP オプションが使われて、タイムアウトに達した場合、
指定した返り値を使う。
デフォルトの値は \fB1\fR である。
.TP
.BR \-F , " \-\-no\-fork"
.\"O Do not fork before executing
.\"O .IR command .
.I command
を実行する前にフォークしない。
.\"O Upon execution the flock process is replaced by
.\"O .I command
.\"O which continues to hold the lock. This option is incompatible with
.\"O \fB\-\-close\fR as there would otherwise be nothing left to hold the lock.
実行時に、flock プロセスは
.I command
に置き換えられて、
.I command
がロックの保持を継続する。
このオプションは、ロックを保持するものが何も残らない
\fB\-\-close\fR とは互換性がない。
.TP
.BR \-e , " \-x" , " \-\-exclusive"
.\"O Obtain an exclusive lock, sometimes called a write lock.  This is the
.\"O default.
排他ロック (書き込みロックとも呼ばれる) を取得する。
これがデフォルトである。
.TP
.BR \-n , " \-\-nb" , " \-\-nonblock"
.\"O Fail rather than wait if the lock cannot be
.\"O immediately acquired.
ロックが即時に取得できない場合、待たずに失敗する。
.\"O See the
.\"O .B \-E
.\"O option for the exit code used.
使用される返り値は、
.B \-E
オプションを参照すること。
.TP
.BR \-o , " \-\-close"
.\"O Close the file descriptor on which the lock is held before executing
.\"O .IR command .
.I command
を実行する前に、ロックを保持するファイルディスクリプターを
クローズする。
.\"O This is useful if
.\"O .I command
.\"O spawns a child process which should not be holding the lock.
これは、ロックを保持させたくない子プロセスを、
.I command
が生成する場合に役立つ。
.TP
.BR \-s , " \-\-shared"
.\"O Obtain a shared lock, sometimes called a read lock.
共有ロック (読み込みロックとも呼ばれる) を取得する。
.TP
.BR \-u , " \-\-unlock"
.\"O Drop a lock.  This is usually not required, since a lock is automatically
.\"O dropped when the file is closed.  However, it may be required in special
.\"O cases, for example if the enclosed command group may have forked a background
.\"O process which should not be holding the lock.
ロックを解放する。
ロックはファイルがクローズされるときに自動的に解放されるので、
通常は必要ない。
しかし、例えばコマンドグループがロックを保持させたくない
バックグランドプロセスをフォークさせるといった、特別なケースで
必要となることがある。
.TP
.BR \-w , " \-\-wait" , " \-\-timeout " \fIseconds
.\"O Fail if the lock cannot be acquired within
.\"O .IR seconds .
.I seconds
以内にロックが取得できない場合、失敗する。
.\"O Decimal fractional values are allowed.
小数値を指定することができる。
.\"O See the
.\"O .B \-E
.\"O option for the exit code used. The zero number of
.\"O .I seconds
.\"O is interpreted as \fB\-\-nonblock\fR.
使用される返り値は
.B \-E
オプションを参照すること。
.I seconds
を 0 に指定すると、\fB\-\-nonblock\fR と解釈される。
.TP
.B \-\-verbose
.\"O Report how long it took to acquire the lock, or why the lock could not be
.\"O obtained.
ロックを取得するのにかかった時間、またはロックが取得できなかった
理由をレポートする。
.TP
.BR \-V , " \-\-version"
.\"O Display version information and exit.
バージョン情報を表示して、終了する。
.TP
.BR \-h , " \-\-help"
.\"O Display help text and exit.
ヘルプを表示して、終了する。
.\"O .SH EXAMPLES
.SH 例
.TP
shell1> flock /tmp -c cat
.TQ
shell2> flock -w .007 /tmp -c echo; /bin/echo $?
.\"O Set exclusive lock to directory /tmp and the second command will fail.
ディレクトリ /tmp の排他ロックを設定し、2 番目のコマンドは失敗する。
.TP
shell1> flock -s /tmp -c cat
.TQ
shell2> flock -s -w .007 /tmp -c echo; /bin/echo $?
.\"O Set shared lock to directory /tmp and the second command will not fail.
ディレクトリ /tmp の共有ロックを設定し、2 番目のコマンドは失敗しない。
.\"O Notice that attempting to get exclusive lock with second command would fail.
共有ロックを取得しようとすると、2 番目のコマンドは失敗する点に注意すること。
.TP
shell> flock -x local-lock-file echo 'a b c'
.\"O Grab the exclusive lock "local-lock-file" before running echo with 'a b c'.
\&'a b c' を echo する前に、排他ロック "local-lock-file" を取得する。
.TP
(
.TQ
  flock -n 9 || exit 1
.TQ
.\"O   # ... commands executed under lock ...
  # ... ロックの元で実行するコマンド ...
.TQ
) 9>/var/lock/mylockfile
.\"O The form is convenient inside shell scripts.  The mode used to open the file
.\"O doesn't matter to
.\"O .BR flock ;
.\"O using
.\"O .I >
.\"O or
.\"O .I >>
.\"O allows the lockfile to be created if it does not already exist, however,
.\"O write permission is required.  Using
.\"O .I <
.\"O requires that the file already exists but only read permission is required.
この形式はシェルスクリプト内で使うのに便利である。
ファイルをオープンするモードは、
.B flock
には関係しない。
.I >
または
.I >>
を使うと、ロックファイルが存在しない場合に、
ロックファイルを作成することができる。
ただし、書き込み許可が必要である。
.I <
を使う場合、ファイルは既に存在している必要があるが、
読み込み許可だけが必要である。
.TP
[ "${FLOCKER}" != "$0" ] && exec env FLOCKER="$0" flock -en "$0" "$0" "$@" || :
.\"O This is useful boilerplate code for shell scripts.  Put it at the top of the
.\"O shell script you want to lock and it'll automatically lock itself on the first
.\"O run.  If the env var $FLOCKER is not set to the shell script that is being run,
.\"O then execute flock and grab an exclusive non-blocking lock (using the script
.\"O itself as the lock file) before re-execing itself with the right arguments.  It
.\"O also sets the FLOCKER env var to the right value so it doesn't run again.
.\"Osato:
.\"Osato: right の訳が自信ない。
.\"Osato: 
これはシェルスクリプトの有用な定型コードである。
これをロックしたいシェルスクリプトの先頭に置くと、
最初の実行時に自動的にロックが行われる。
実行されるシェルスクリプトに環境変数 $FLOCKER が設定されていない場合、
右側の引数で再実行する前に、
flock を実行して排他的なブロックされないロックを取得する
(スクリプト自体をロックファイルとして使う)。
これは、環境変数 FLOCKER を右側の値として設定するので、再度実行されない。
.\"O .SH "EXIT STATUS"
.SH 返り値
.\"O The command uses
.\"O .B sysexits.h
.\"O return values for everything, except when using either of the options
.\"O .B \-n
.\"O or
.\"O .B \-w
.\"O which report a failure to acquire the lock with a return value given by the
.\"O .B \-E
.\"O option, or 1 by default.
このコマンドは
.B sysexits.h
の返り値をすべてにおいて使用する。
ただし、オプション
.B \-n
または
.B \-w
が使われた場合は、ロックの取得の失敗を
.B \-E
オプションで指定された返り値 (デフォルトは 1) を使ってレポートする。
.PP
.\"O When using the \fIcommand\fR variant, and executing the child worked, then
.\"O the exit status is that of the child command.
\fIcommand\fR 引数が使われて、かつ子のコマンドが実行された場合、
返り値は子のコマンドの返り値となる。
.\"O .SH AUTHOR
.SH 著者
.UR hpa@zytor.com
H. Peter Anvin
.UE
.\"O .SH COPYRIGHT
.SH 著作権
Copyright \(co 2003\-2006 H. Peter Anvin.
.br
This is free software; see the source for copying conditions.  There is NO
warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.\"O .SH "SEE ALSO"
.SH 関連項目
.BR flock (2)
.\"O .SH AVAILABILITY
.SH 入手方法
.\"O The flock command is part of the util-linux package and is available from
.\"O .UR https://\:www.kernel.org\:/pub\:/linux\:/utils\:/util-linux/
.\"O Linux Kernel Archive
.\"O .UE .
flock コマンドは、util-linux パッケージの一部であり、
.UR https://\:www.kernel.org\:/pub\:/linux\:/utils\:/util-linux/
Linux Kernel Archive
.UE
から入手できる。
