.\"
.\" Japanese Version Copyright (c) 2020 Yuichi SATO
.\"         all rights reserved.
.\" Translated Thu Apr  9 23:01:57 JST 2020
.\"         by Yuichi SATO <ysato444@ybb.ne.jp>
.\"
.TH IONICE 1 "July 2011" "util-linux" "User Commands"
.\"O .SH NAME
.SH 名前
.\"O ionice \- set or get process I/O scheduling class and priority
ionice \- プロセス I/O のスケジューリングクラスと優先度を設定または取得する。
.\"O .SH SYNOPSIS
.SH 書式
.B ionice
.RB [ \-c
.IR class ]
.RB [ \-n
.IR level ]
.RB [ \-t ]
.B \-p
.IR PID ...
.br
.B ionice
.RB [ \-c
.IR class ]
.RB [ \-n
.IR level ]
.RB [ \-t ]
.B \-P
.IR PGID ...
.br
.B ionice
.RB [ \-c
.IR class ]
.RB [ \-n
.IR level ]
.RB [ \-t ]
.B \-u
.IR UID ...
.br
.B ionice
.RB [ \-c
.IR class ]
.RB [ \-n
.IR level ]
.RB [ \-t ]
.IR "command " [ argument ...]
.\"O .SH DESCRIPTION
.SH 説明
.\"O This program sets or gets the I/O scheduling class and priority for a program.
.\"O If no arguments or just \fB\-p\fR is given, \fBionice\fR will query the current
.\"O I/O scheduling class and priority for that process.
このプログラムは、対象プログラムの I/O スケジューリングクラスと優先度を設定または取得する。
引き数が指定されない場合、または単に \fB\-p\fR が指定された場合、
\fBionice\fR はそのプロセスの、現在の I/O スケジューリングクラスと
優先度を取得する。

.\"O When \fIcommand\fR is given,
.\"O .B ionice
.\"O will run this command with the given arguments.
.\"O If no \fIclass\fR is specified, then
.\"O .I command
.\"O will be executed with the "best-effort" scheduling class.  The default
.\"O priority level is 4.
\fIcommand\fR が指定された場合、
.B ionice
はコマンドを指定した引き数で実行する。
\fIclass\fR が指定されない場合、
.I command
は "best-effort" スケジューリングクラスで実行される。
デフォルトの優先度レベルは 4 である。

.\"O As of this writing, a process can be in one of three scheduling classes:
これを書いている時点では、プロセスは 3 つのスケジューリングクラスのうちの 1 つである。
.\"O .IP "\fBIdle\fP"
.IP "\fBidle\fP"
.\"O A program running with idle I/O priority will only get disk time when no other
.\"O program has asked for disk I/O for a defined grace period.  The impact of an
.\"O idle I/O process on normal system activity should be zero.  This scheduling
.\"O class does not take a priority argument.  Presently, this scheduling class
.\"O is permitted for an ordinary user (since kernel 2.6.25).
アイドル I/O 優先度で実行されているプログラムは、
定義された猶予期間に他のプログラムがディスク I/O を要求しなかった場合にのみ、
ディスク時間を取得する。
通常のシステムアクティビティについての、
アイドル I/O プロセスの影響は 0 になるだろう。
このスケジューリングクラスは優先度の引き数をとらない。
現在のところ、(カーネル 2.6.25 以降で) このスケジューリングクラスは、
通常ユーザーに許可されている。
.\"O .IP "\fBBest-effort\fP"
.IP "\fBbest-effort\fP"
.\"O This is the effective scheduling class for any process that has not asked for
.\"O a specific I/O priority.
.\"O This class takes a priority argument from \fI0-7\fR, with a lower
.\"O number being higher priority.  Programs running at the same best-effort
.\"O priority are served in a round-robin fashion.
これは効率的なスケジューリングクラスで、特定の I/O 優先度を要求しない
プロセスのためのものである。
このクラスは優先度の引き数 \fI0-7\fR をとり、小さい数ほど高い優先度になる。
同じベストエフォート優先度で実行されているプログラムは、
ラウンドロビン方式で I/O が提供される。

.\"O Note that before kernel 2.6.26 a process that has not asked for an I/O priority
.\"O formally uses "\fBnone\fP" as scheduling class, but the I/O scheduler will treat
.\"O such processes as if it were in the best-effort class.  The priority within the
.\"O best-effort class will be dynamically derived from the CPU nice level of the
.\"O process: io_priority = (cpu_nice + 20) / 5.
カーネル 2.6.26 以前では、I/O 優先度を要求しないプロセスは、
正式にはスケジューリングクラスとして "\fBnone\fP" を使うが、
I/O スケジューラはこのようなプロセスをベストエフォートクラスに
あるかのように扱う点に注意すること。
ベストエフォートクラスでの優先度は、プロセスの CPU nice レベルから
動的に計算される: io_priority = (cpu_nice + 20) / 5.

.\"O For kernels after 2.6.26 with the CFQ I/O scheduler, a process that has not asked
.\"O for an I/O priority inherits its CPU scheduling class.  The I/O priority is derived
.\"O from the CPU nice level of the process (same as before kernel 2.6.26).
CFQ I/O スケジューラを持つカーネル 2.6.26 以降では、
I/O 優先度を要求しないプロセスは、その CPU スケジューリングクラスを継承する。
I/O 優先度はプロセスの CPU nice レベルから計算される
(カーネル 2.6.26 以前と同じ)。

.\"O .IP "\fBRealtime\fP"
.IP "\fBrealtime\fP"
リアルタイムスケジューリングクラスが指定されると、
システムで何が行われているかに関わらず、ディスクに最初に
アクセスする。
リアルタイムクラスは、他のプロセスをに飢餓状態 (starve) にしてしまうので、
注意して使う必要がある。
ベストエフォートクラスと同様に、指定されたプロセスが、
各スケジューリングウィンドウにおいて、どれだけのタイムスライスを
受けとるかについて、8 つの優先度レベルが定義される。
このスケジューリングクラスは、通常ユーザー (つまり、root 以外) には許可されていない。
.\"O .SH OPTIONS
.SH オプション
.TP
.BR \-c , " \-\-class " \fIclass\fR
.\"O Specify the name or number of the scheduling class to use; \fI0\fR for none,
.\"O \fI1\fR for realtime, \fI2\fR for best-effort, \fI3\fR for idle.
使用するスケジューリングクラスの名前、または番号を指定する:
\fI0\fR は none、\fI1\fR は realtime、\fI2\fR は best-effort、
\fI3\fR は idle である。
.TP
.BR \-n , " \-\-classdata " \fIlevel\fR
.\"O Specify the scheduling class data.  This only has an effect if the class
.\"O accepts an argument.  For realtime and best-effort, \fI0-7\fR are valid data
.\"O (priority levels), and \fI0\fR represents the highest priority level.
スケジューリングクラスのデータを指定する。
これはクラスが引き数を受け付ける場合にのみ有効である。
realtime と best-effort クラスでは、\fI0-7\fR が有効なデータ
(優先度レベル) であり、\fI0\fR が最高の優先度レベルを表す。
.TP
.BR \-p , " \-\-pid " \fIPID\fR...
.\"O Specify the process IDs of running processes for which to get or set the
.\"O scheduling parameters.
スケジューリングパラメータを取得または設定する実行中プロセスの
プロセス ID を指定する。
.TP
.BR \-P , " \-\-pgid " \fIPGID\fR...
.\"O Specify the process group IDs of running processes for which to get or set the
.\"O scheduling parameters.
スケジューリングパラメータを取得または設定する実行中プロセスの
プロセスグループ ID を指定する。
.TP
.BR \-t , " \-\-ignore"
.\"O Ignore failure to set the requested priority.  If \fIcommand\fR was specified,
.\"O run it even in case it was not possible to set the desired scheduling priority,
.\"O which can happen due to insufficient privileges or an old kernel version.
要求された優先度の設定に失敗した場合に無視する。
\fIcommand\fR が指定されている場合、
要求したスケジューリング優先度に設定できない場合でも、コマンドを
実行する。
これは、権限が不十分な場合や、カーネルバージョンが古い場合に
起こる可能性がある。
.TP
.BR \-h , " \-\-help"
.\"O Display help text and exit.
ヘルプを表示して、終了する。
.TP
.BR \-u , " \-\-uid " \fIUID\fR...
.\"O Specify the user IDs of running processes for which to get or set the
.\"O scheduling parameters.
スケジューリングパラメータを取得または設定する実行中プロセスの
ユーザー ID を指定する。
.TP
.BR \-V , " \-\-version"
.\"O Display version information and exit.
バージョン情報を表示して、終了する。
.\"O .SH EXAMPLES
.SH 例
.LP
.TP 7
# \fBionice\fP -c 3 -p 89
.TP 7
.\"O Sets process with PID 89 as an idle I/O process.
PID 89 のプロセスを、idle I/O プロセスに設定する。
.TP 7
# \fBionice\fP -c 2 -n 0 bash
.TP 7
.\"O Runs 'bash' as a best-effort program with highest priority.
\&'bash' を最高優先度の best-effort プログラムとして実行する。
.TP 7
# \fBionice\fP -p 89 91
.TP 7
.\"O Prints the class and priority of the processes with PID 89 and 91.
PID 89 と 91 のプロセスのクラスと優先度を表示する。
.\"O .SH NOTES
.SH 注意
.\"O Linux supports I/O scheduling priorities and classes since 2.6.13 with the CFQ
.\"O I/O scheduler.
Linux は、2.6.13 以降の CFQ I/O スケジューラで、
I/O スケジューリングの優先度とクラスをサポートしている。
.\"O .SH AUTHORS
.SH 著者
.nf
Jens Axboe <jens@axboe.dk>
Karel Zak <kzak@redhat.com>
.fi
.\"O .SH SEE ALSO
.SH 関連項目
.BR ioprio_set (2)
.\"O .SH AVAILABILITY
.SH 入手方法
.\"O The ionice command is part of the util-linux package and is available from
.\"O https://www.kernel.org/pub/linux/utils/util-linux/.
ionice コマンドは util-linux パッケージの一部であり、
https://www.kernel.org/pub/linux/utils/util-linux/
から入手できる。
