.\" Copyright 2008 Hayden A. James (hayden.james@gmail.com)
.\" May be distributed under the GNU General Public License
.\"
.\" Japanese Version Copyright (c) 2020 Yuichi SATO
.\"         all rights reserved.
.\" Translated Fri Apr 10 08:32:13 JST 2020
.\"         by Yuichi SATO <ysato444@ybb.ne.jp>
.\"
.TH IPCMK "1" "July 2014" "util-linux" "User Commands"
.\"O .SH "NAME"
.SH 名前
.\"O ipcmk \- make various IPC resources
ipcmk \- さまざまな IPC リソースを作成する。
.\"O .SH "SYNOPSIS"
.SH 書式
.B ipcmk
[options]
.\"O .SH "DESCRIPTION"
.SH 説明
.\"O .B ipcmk
.\"O allows you to create shared memory segments, message queues,
.\"O and semaphore arrays.
.B ipcmk
により、共有メモリセグメント、メッセージキュー、セマフォ配列を
作成できる。
.\"O .SH "OPTIONS"
.SH オプション
.TP
.\"O Resources can be specified with these options:
リソースは下記のオプションで指定できる。
.TP
.BR \-M , " \-\-shmem " \fIsize
.\"O Create a shared memory segment of
.\"O .I size
.\"O bytes.
.I size
バイトの共有メモリセグメントを作成する。
.\"O The \fIsize\fR argument may be followed by the multiplicative suffixes KiB (=1024), MiB (=1024*1024), and so on for GiB, etc. (the
.\"O "iB" is optional, e.g., "K" has the same meaning as "KiB") or the suffixes KB (=1000), MB (=1000*1000), and so on for GB, etc.
\fIsize\fR 引き数は、倍数のサフィックス KiB (=1024), MiB (=1024*1024), GiB
などを付けることをできる ("iB" はオプションであり、"K" は "KiB" と同じ意味である)。
また、サフィックス KB (=1000), MB (=1000*1000), GB などを付けることもできる。
.TP
.BR \-Q , " \-\-queue"
.\"O Create a message queue.
メッセージキューを作成する。
.TP
.BR \-S , " \-\-semaphore " \fInumber
.\"O Create a semaphore array with
.\"O .I number
.\"O of elements.
.I number
個の要素のセマフォ配列を作成する。
.PP
.\"O Other options are:
他のオプションは以下の通り:
.TP
.BR \-p , " \-\-mode " \fImode
.\"O Access permissions for the resource.  Default is 0644.
リソースのアクセス権限。デフォルトは 0644 である。
.TP
.BR \-V , " \-\-version"
.\"O Display version information and exit.
バージョン情報を表示して、終了する。
.TP
.BR \-h , " \-\-help"
.\"O Display help text and exit.
ヘルプを表示して、終了する。
.PP
.\"O .SH "SEE ALSO"
.SH 関連項目
.BR ipcrm (1),
.BR ipcs (1)
.\"O .SH "AUTHOR"
.SH 著者
.MT hayden.james@gmail.com
Hayden A. James
.ME
.\"O .SH "AVAILABILITY"
.SH 入手方法
.\"O The ipcmk command is part of the util-linux package and is available from
.\"O .UR https://\:www.kernel.org\:/pub\:/linux\:/utils\:/util-linux/
.\"O Linux Kernel Archive
.\"O .UE .
ipcmk コマンドは util-linux パッケージの一部であり、
.UR https://\:www.kernel.org\:/pub\:/linux\:/utils\:/util-linux/
Linux Kernel Archive
.UE
から入手できる。
