.\" Copyright 2002 Andre C. Mazzone (linuxdev@karagee.com)
.\" May be distributed under the GNU General Public License
.\"
.\" Japanese Version Copyright (c) 2020 Yuichi SATO
.\"         all rights reserved.
.\" Translated Fri Apr 10 15:21:27 JST 2020
.\"         by Yuichi SATO <ysato444@ybb.ne.jp>
.\"
.TH IPCRM "1" "July 2014" "util-linux" "User Commands"
.\"O .SH NAME
.SH 名前
.\"O ipcrm \- remove certain IPC resources
ipcrm \- 特定の IPC リソースを削除する。
.\"O .SH SYNOPSIS
.SH 書式
.B ipcrm
[options]
.sp
.B ipcrm
.RB { shm | msg | sem }
.IR id ...
.\"O .SH DESCRIPTION
.SH 説明
.\"O .B ipcrm
.\"O removes System V inter-process communication (IPC) objects
.\"O and associated data structures from the system.
.\"O In order to delete such objects, you must be superuser, or
.\"O the creator or owner of the object.
.B ipcrm
は System V プロセス間通信 (inter-process communication, IPC) オブジェクトと、
関連するデータ構造をシステムから削除する。
このようなオブジェクトを削除するためには、スーパーユーザーか、
オブジェクトの作成者か、所有者でなければならない。
.PP
.\"O System V IPC objects are of three types: shared memory,
.\"O message queues, and semaphores.
System V IPC オブジェクトは 3 つのタイプがある: 共有メモリ、メッセージキュー、
セマフォである。
.\"O Deletion of a message queue or semaphore object is immediate
.\"O (regardless of whether any process still holds an IPC
.\"O identifier for the object).
メッセージキューとセマフォオブジェクトの削除は、
(プロセスがオブジェクトの IPC 識別子をまだ持っているかに関わらず) 即時に行われる。
.\"O A shared memory object is only removed
.\"O after all currently attached processes have detached
.\"O .RB ( shmdt (2))
.\"O the object from their virtual address space.
共有メモリオブジェクトは、仮想アドレス空間でそのオブジェクトを
付加　(attach) した現状の全てのプロセスが、
.RB ( shmdt (2))
で分離 (detach) した後でのみ削除される。
.PP
.\"O Two syntax styles are supported.  The old Linux historical syntax specifies
.\"O a three-letter keyword indicating which class of object is to be deleted,
.\"O followed by one or more IPC identifiers for objects of this type.
2 つの書式がサポートされている。
古い Linux の歴史的な書式では、どのクラスのオブジェクトを削除するかを示す
3 文字のキーワードの後に、そのタイプのオブジェクトの 1 つ以上の IPC 識別子を続ける。
.PP
.\"O The SUS-compliant syntax allows the specification of
.\"O zero or more objects of all three types in a single command line,
.\"O with objects specified either by key or by identifier (see below).
SUS 互換の書式では、1 つのコマンドラインで、
3 つ全てのタイプの 0 個以上のオブジェクトを指定できる。
ここでオブジェクトはキーまたは識別子で指定できる (下記を参照)。
.\"O Both keys and identifiers may be specified in decimal, hexadecimal
.\"O (specified with an initial '0x' or '0X'), or octal (specified with
.\"O an initial '0').
キーと識別子は、10 進数、(先頭に '0x' または '0X' を付けた) 16 進数、
(先頭に '0' を付けた) 8 進数で指定できる。
.PP
.\"O The details of the removes are described in
.\"O .BR shmctl (2),
.\"O .BR msgctl (2),
.\"O and
.\"O .BR semctl (2).
削除の詳細は
.BR shmctl (2),
.BR msgctl (2),
.BR semctl (2)
に記載されている。
.\"O The identifiers and keys can be found by using
.\"O .BR ipcs (1).
識別子とキーは
.BR ipcs (1)
を使って知ることができる。
.\"O .SH OPTIONS
.SH オプション
.TP
\fB-a\fR, \fB\-\-all\fR [\fBshm\fR] [\fBmsg\fR] [\fBsem\fR]
.\"O Remove all resources.  When an option argument is provided, the removal is
.\"O performed only for the specified resource types.  \fIWarning!\fR  Do not use
.\"O .B \-a
.\"O if you are unsure how the software using the resources might react to missing
.\"O objects.  Some programs create these resources at startup and may not have
.\"O any code to deal with an unexpected disappearance.
全てのリソースを削除する。
オプションの引き数を指定すると、指定されたリソースタイプのみが
削除される。
\fI警告!\fR そのリソースを使っているソフトウェアが、オブジェクトを失った際に
どのように動作するかが分からないなら、
.B \-a
を使わないこと。
.TP
.BR \-M , " \-\-shmem\-key " \fIshmkey
.\"O Remove the shared memory segment created with
.\"O .I shmkey
.\"O after the last detach is performed.
.I shmkey
で作成された共有メモリセグメントを、最後の分離が終わった後に
削除する。
.TP
.BR \-m , " \-\-shmem\-id " \fIshmid
.\"O Remove the shared memory segment identified by
.\"O .I shmid
.\"O after the last detach is performed.
.I shmid
で識別される共有メモリセグメントを、最後の分離が終わった後に
削除する。
.TP
.BR \-Q , " \-\-queue\-key " \fImsgkey
.\"O Remove the message queue created with
.\"O .IR msgkey .
.I msgkey
で作成されたメッセージキューを削除する。
.TP
.BR \-q , " \-\-queue\-id " \fImsgid
.\"O Remove the message queue identified by
.\"O .IR msgid .
.I msgid
で識別されるメッセージキューを削除する。
.TP
.BR \-S , " \-\-semaphore\-key " \fIsemkey
.\"O Remove the semaphore created with
.\"O .IR semkey .
.I semkey
で作成されたセマフォを削除する。
.TP
.BR \-s , " \-\-semaphore\-id " \fIsemid
.\"O Remove the semaphore identified by
.\"O .IR semid .
.I semid
で識別されるセマフォを削除する。
.TP
.BR \-V , " \-\-version"
.\"O Display version information and exit.
バージョン情報を表示して、終了する。
.TP
.BR \-h , " \-\-help"
.\"O Display help text and exit.
ヘルプを表示して、終了する。
.\"O .SH NOTES
.SH 注意
.\"O In its first Linux implementation, \fBipcrm\fR used the deprecated syntax
.\"O shown in the second line of the
.\"O .BR SYNOPSIS .
最初の Linux での実装では、\fBipcrm\fR は
.B 書式
の 2 行目に示した推奨されない書式を使っていた。
.\"O Functionality present in other *nix implementations of \fBipcrm\fR has since
.\"O been added, namely the ability to delete resources by key (not just
.\"O identifier), and to respect the same command-line syntax.  For backward
.\"O compatibility the previous syntax is still supported.
それから、他の *nix での \fBipcrm\fR の実装に存在する機能が追加された。
つまり、(単に識別子だけでなく) キーを指定してリソースを削除する機能と、同じコマンドライン書式に
従う機能が追加された。
後方互換のため、以前の書式もまだサポートされている。
.\"O .\" .SH AUTHORS
.\" .SH 著者
.\" Andre C. Mazzone (linuxdev@karagee.com)
.\" .br
.\" Krishna Balasubramanian (balasub@cis.ohio-state.edu)
.\"O .SH SEE ALSO
.SH 関連項目
.nh
.BR ipcmk (1),
.BR ipcs (1),
.BR msgctl (2),
.BR msgget (2),
.BR semctl (2),
.BR semget (2),
.BR shmctl (2),
.BR shmdt (2),
.BR shmget (2),
.BR ftok (3)
.\"O .SH AVAILABILITY
.SH 入手方法
.\"O The ipcrm command is part of the util-linux package and is available from
.\"O .UR https://\:www.kernel.org\:/pub\:/linux\:/utils\:/util-linux/
.\"O Linux Kernel Archive
.\"O .UE .
ipcrm コマンドは util-linux パッケージの一部であり、
.UR https://\:www.kernel.org\:/pub\:/linux\:/utils\:/util-linux/
Linux Kernel Archive
.UE
から入手できる。
