.\" Copyright 1993 Rickard E. Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" May be distributed under the GNU General Public License
.\"
.\" Japanese Version Copyright (c) 1997 Kazuyoshi Furutaka
.\"         all rights reserved.
.\" Translated Fri Feb 14 23:06:00 JST 1997
.\"         by Kazuyoshi Furutaka <furutaka@Flux.tokai.jaeri.go.jp>
.\" Updated Fri Jan 12 04:05:44 JST 2001
.\"         by Kentaro Shirakata <argrath@ub32.org>
.\" Modified Tue 16 Sep 2002 by NAKANO Takeo <nakano@apm.seikei.ac.jp>
.\" Updated & Modified 
.\"         by Yuichi SATO <ysato444@ybb.ne.jp>
.\"
.TH LOGIN "1" "June 2012" "util-linux" "User Commands"
.\"O .SH NAME
.SH 名前
.\"O login \- begin session on the system
login \- システム上でセッションを開く
.\"O .SH SYNOPSIS
.SH 書式
.B login
[
.B \-p
] [
.B \-h
.I host
] [
.B \-H
] [
.B \-f
.I username
|
.I username
]
.\"O .SH DESCRIPTION
.SH 説明
.\"O .B login
.\"O is used when signing onto a system.  If no argument is given,
.\"O .B login
.\"O prompts for the username.
.B login
はシステムにサインインするために使われる。
引き数が指定されない場合、
.B login
はユーザ名を入力するプロンプトを出す。
.PP
.\"O The user is then prompted for a password, where appropriate.  Echoing
.\"O is disabled to prevent revealing the password.  Only a small number
.\"O of password failures are permitted before
.\"O .B login
.\"O exits and the communications link is severed.
次いで、必要な場合には、ユーザはパスワードを入力するよう促される。
パスワードを表示してしまわないよう、エコーは行われない。
数回以上パスワード入力に失敗すると
.B login
は終了し、通信の接続は切断されてしまう。
.PP
.\"O If password aging has been enabled for the account, the user may be
.\"O prompted for a new password before proceeding.  He will be forced to
.\"O provide his old password and the new password before continuing.
.\"O Please refer to
.\"O .BR passwd (1)
.\"O for more information.
アカウントに対してパスワードの有効期限が設定されている場合は、
先に進む前に新しいパスワードの設定を促されることもある。
セッションを続けるためには古いパスワードと
新しいパスワードを入力しなくてはならない。
詳しい情報は
.BR passwd (1)
を参照すること。
.PP
.\"O The user and group ID will be set according to their values in the
.\"O .I /etc/passwd
.\"O file.  There is one exception if the user ID is zero: in this case,
.\"O only the primary group ID of the account is set.  This should allow
.\"O the system administrator to login even in case of network problems.
ユーザ ID とグループの ID は
.I /etc/passwd
ファイル中に記載されている値に従って設定される。
ユーザ ID が 0 の場合、1 つの例外がある。
この場合、アカウントのプライマリグループ ID のみが設定される。
これにより、ネットワーク問題の場合にもシステム管理者がログインすることが
可能になる。
.\"O The value for
.\"O .BR $HOME ,
.\"O .BR $USER ,
.\"O .BR $SHELL ,
.\"O .BR $PATH ,
.\"O .BR $LOGNAME ,
.\"O and
.\"O .B $MAIL
.\"O are set according to the appropriate fields in the password entry.
.BR $HOME ,
.BR $USER ,
.BR $SHELL ,
.BR $PATH ,
.BR $LOGNAME ,
.B $MAIL
の値は、パスワードエントリのそれぞれのフィールドに従って設定される。
.\"O .B $PATH
.\"O defaults to
.\"O .I /usr\:/local\:/bin:\:/bin:\:/usr\:/bin
.\"O for normal users, and to
.\"O .I /usr\:/local\:/sbin:\:/usr\:/local\:/bin:\:/sbin:\:/bin:\:/usr\:/sbin:\:/usr\:/bin
.\"O for root, if not otherwise configured.
.B $PATH
のデフォルトは、通常ユーザでは
.I /usr\:/local\:/bin:\:/bin:\:/usr\:/bin
であり、root では
.I /usr\:/local\:/sbin:\:/usr\:/local\:/bin:\:/sbin:\:/bin:\:/usr\:/sbin:\:/usr\:/bin
であり、そうでない場合は設定がされている。
.P
.\"O The environment variable
.\"O .B $TERM
.\"O will be preserved, if it exists (other environment variables are
.\"O preserved if the
.\"O .B \-p
.\"O option is given), else it will be initialized to the terminal type on your tty.
環境変数
.B $TERM
が存在する場合は、保持される
(他の環境変数は、
.B \-p
オプションが指定された場合に保持される)。
存在しない場合は、tty の端末の型 (terminal type) に初期化される。
.PP
.\"O Then the user's shell is started.  If no shell is specified for the
.\"O user in
.\"O .IR /etc\:/passwd ,
.\"O then
.\"O .I /bin\:/sh
.\"O is used.  If there is no directory specified in
.\"O .IR /etc\:/passwd ,
.\"O then
.\"O .I /
.\"O is used (the home directory is checked for the
.\"O .I .hushlogin
.\"O file described below).
そして、ユーザのシェルが開始される。
そのユーザのシェルが
.I /etc\:/passwd
で指定されていない場合、
.I /bin\:/sh
が使われる。
ディレクトリが
.I /etc\:/passwd
で指定されていない場合、
.I /
が使われる
(ホームディレクトリは、下記で説明されている
.I .hushlogin
ファイルでチェックされる)。
.PP
.\"O If the file
.\"O .I .hushlogin
.\"O exists, then a "quiet" login is performed (this disables the checking
.\"O of mail and the printing of the last login time and message of the
.\"O day).  Otherwise, if
.\"O .I /var\:/log\:/lastlog
.\"O exists, the last login time is printed (and the current login is
.\"O recorded).
ファイル
.I .hushlogin
が存在する場合、「静に」ログインが行われる
(メールのチェック、最後のログイン時刻の表示、その日のメッセージの表示が
無効化される)。
ファイルが存在しない場合で、
.I /var\:/log\:/lastlog
が存在する場合、最後のログイン時刻が表示される (そして、現在のログインが記録される)。
.\"O .SH OPTIONS
.SH オプション
.TP
.B \-p
.\"O Used by
.\"O .BR getty (8)
.\"O to tell
.\"O .B login
.\"O not to destroy the environment.
.BR getty (8)
によって使われ、
.B login
が環境変数を破棄しないようにする。
.TP
.B \-f
.\"O Used to skip a second login authentication.  This specifically does
.\"O .B not
.\"O work for root, and does not appear to work well under Linux.
第 2 のログイン認証をスキップするのに使われる。
これは、特に root では
.B 動作せず、
Linux ではうまく動作するか分からない。
.TP
.B \-h
.\"O Used by other servers (i.e.,
.\"O .BR telnetd (8))
.\"O to pass the name of the remote host to
.\"O .B login
.\"O so that it may be placed in utmp and wtmp.  Only the superuser may
.\"O use this option.
他のサーバ (つまり、
.BR telnetd (8)
など) によって使用され、リモートホストの名前を
.B login
に渡すために使われて、utmp と wtmp に格納される。
スーパーユーザのみがこのオプションを使用できる。
.IP
.\"O Note that the
.\"O .B \-h
.\"O option has impact on the
.\"O .B PAM service
.\"O .BR name .
.B \-h
オプションは
.B PAM サービス名
に影響がある点に注意すること。
.\"O The standard service name is
.\"O .IR login ,
.\"O with the
.\"O .B \-h
.\"O option the name is
.\"O .IR remote .
標準のサービス名
.I login
であり、
.B \-h
オプションを指定すると、
.I remote
になる。
.\"O It is necessary to create proper PAM config files (e.g.
.\"O .I /etc\:/pam.d\:/login
.\"O and
.\"O .IR /etc\:/pam.d\:/remote ).
正式な PAM 設定ファイル (例えば、
.I /etc\:/pam.d\:/login
と
.IR /etc\:/pam.d\:/remote )
を作成することが必要である。
.TP
.B \-H
.\"O Used by other servers (i.e.,
.\"O .BR telnetd (8))
.\"O to tell
.\"O .B login
.\"O that printing the hostname should be suppressed in the login: prompt.
他のサーバ (つまり、
.BR telnetd (8)
など) によって使用され、
.B login
は login: プロンプトでのホスト名の表示を抑制する。
.\"O See also LOGIN_PLAIN_PROMPT below if your server does not allow to configure
.\"O .B login
.\"O command line.
サーバが
.B login
コマンドラインの設定を許可していない場合、下記の LOGIN_PLAIN_PROMPT も参照すること。
.TP
\fB\-\-help\fR
.\"O Display help text and exit.
ヘルプを表示して、終了する。
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
.\"O Display version information and exit.
バージョン情報を表示して、終了する。
.\"O .SH CONFIG FILE ITEMS
.SH 設定ファイルのアイテム
.\"O .B login
.\"O reads the
.\"O .IR /etc\:/login.defs (5)
.\"O configuration file.  Note that the configuration file could be
.\"O distributed with another package (e.g. shadow-utils).  The following
.\"O configuration items are relevant for
.\"O .BR login (1):
.B login
は設定ファイル
.IR /etc\:/login.defs (5)
を読み込む。
この設定ファイルは他のパッケージ (例えば、shadow-utils) で配布される
可能性がある点に注意すること。
以下の設定アイテムが
.BR login (1)
に関連する:
.PP
.B MOTD_FILE
.\"O (string)
(文字列)
.RS 4
.\"O If defined, a ":" delimited list of "message of the day" files to be
.\"O displayed upon login.  The default value is
.\"O .IR /etc\:/motd .
このアイテムが定義されている場合、
":" 区切りの「その日のメッセージ (message of the day)」ファイルのリストが、
ログイン時に表示される。
デフォルトの値は
.I /etc\:/motd
である。
.\"O If the
.\"O .B MOTD_FILE
.\"O item is empty or a quiet login is enabled, then the message of the day
.\"O is not displayed.  Note that the same functionality is also provided
.\"O by
.\"O .BR pam_motd (8)
.\"O PAM module.
.B MOTD_FILE
アイテムが空、または静かなログインが有効にされている場合、
その日のメッセージは表示されない。
同様な機能は
.BR pam_motd (8)
PAM モジュールで提供される点に注意すること。
.RE
.PP
.B LOGIN_PLAIN_PROMPT
.\"O (boolean)
(ブール値)
.RS 4
.\"O Tell login that printing the hostname should be suppressed in the login:
.\"O prompt.  This is alternative to the \fB\-H\fR command line option.  The default
.\"O value is
.\"O .IR no .
login に login: プロンプトでのホスト名の表示を抑制させる。
これは \fB\-H\fR コマンドラインオプションの代替である。
デフォルトの値は、
.I no
である。
.RE
.PP
.B LOGIN_TIMEOUT
.\"O (number)
(数値)
.RS 4
.\"O Max time in seconds for login.  The default value is
.\"O .IR 60 .
login を待つ最大時間 (秒)。
デフォルトの値は、
.I 60
である。
.RE
.PP
.B LOGIN_RETRIES
.\"O (number)
(数値)
.RS 4
.\"O Maximum number of login retries in case of a bad password.  The default
.\"O value is
.\"O .IR 3 .
パスワードを間違えた場合に、ログインがリトライする最大回数。
デフォルトの値は、
.I 3
である。
.RE
.PP
.B FAIL_DELAY
.\"O (number)
(数値)
.RS 4
.\"O Delay in seconds before being allowed another three tries after a
.\"O login failure.  The default value is
.\"O .IR 5 .
ログインが 3 回失敗した場合に、再度ログインを許可するまでの遅延時間 (秒)。
デフォルトの値は、
.I 5
である。
.RE
.PP
.B TTYPERM
.\"O (string)
(文字列)
.RS 4
.\"O The terminal permissions.  The default value is
.\"O .I 0600
.\"O or
.\"O .I 0620
.\"O if tty group is used.
端末の権限。
デフォルトの値は、
.I 0600
である。
tty グループが使われている場合、デフォルトの値は、
.I 0620
である。
.RE
.PP
.B TTYGROUP
.\"O (string)
(文字列)
.RS 4
.\"O The login tty will be owned by the
.\"O .BR TTYGROUP .
ログイン tty は、
.B TTYGROUP
に所有される。
.\"O The default value is
.\"O .IR tty .
デフォルト値は
.I tty
である。
.\"O If the
.\"O .B TTYGROUP
.\"O does not exist, then the ownership of the terminal is set to the
.\"O user\'s primary group.
.B TTYGROUP
が存在しない場合、端末の所有権はユーザのプライマリグループに
設定される。
.PP
.\"O The
.\"O .B TTYGROUP
.\"O can be either the name of a group or a numeric group identifier.
.B TTYGROUP
はグループ名、または数値のグループ識別子である。
.RE
.PP
.B HUSHLOGIN_FILE
.\"O (string)
(文字列)
.RS 4
.\"O If defined, this file can inhibit all the usual chatter during the
.\"O login sequence.  If a full pathname (e.g.
.\"O .IR /etc\:/hushlogins )
.\"O is specified, then hushed mode will be enabled if the user\'s name or
.\"O shell are found in the file.  If this global hush login file is empty
.\"O then the hushed mode will be enabled for all users.
このファイルが定義された場合、通常のログインシーケンスでのいろいろな
表示が抑制される。
フルパス名 (例えば、
.IR /etc\:/hushlogins )
が指定された場合、このファイルがユーザの名前やシェルがあると、
ハッシュモードが有効化される。
このグローバルのハッシュログインファイルが空の場合、全てのユーザで
ハッシュモードが有効化される。
.PP
.\"O If a full pathname is not specified, then hushed mode will be enabled
.\"O if the file exists in the user\'s home directory.
フルパス名が指定されない場合、かつファイルがユーザのホーム
ディレクトリにある場合、ハッシュモードが有効化される。
.PP
.\"O The default is to check
.\"O .I /etc\:/hushlogins
.\"O and if it does not exist then
.\"O .I ~/.hushlogin
デフォルトでは、
.I /etc\:/hushlogins
をチェックし、存在しない場合は、
.I ~/.hushlogin
をチェックする。
.PP
.\"O If the
.\"O .B HUSHLOGIN_FILE
.\"O item is empty, then all the checks are disabled.
.B HUSHLOGIN_FILE
アイテムが空の場合、全てのチェックが無効化される。
.RE
.PP
.B DEFAULT_HOME
.\"O (boolean)
(ブール値)
.RS 4
.\"O Indicate if login is allowed if we cannot change directory to the
.\"O home directory.  If set to
.\"O .IR yes ,
.\"O the user will login in the root (/) directory if it is not possible
.\"O to change directory to her home.  The default value is
.\"O .IR yes .
ホームディレクトリに移動できない場合に、ログインを許可するかを
指定する。
.I yes
に設定すると、ユーザがホームディレクトリに移動できない場合、
ルート (/) ディレクトリでログインする。
デフォルトの値は、
.I yes
である。
.RE
.PP
.B LASTLOG_UID_MAX
.\"O (unsigned number)
(符号なし数値)
.RS 4
.\"O Highest user ID number for which the lastlog entries should be
.\"O updated.  As higher user IDs are usually tracked by remote user
.\"O identity and authentication services there is no need to create
.\"O a huge sparse lastlog file for them.  No LASTLOG_UID_MAX option
.\"O present in the configuration means that there is no user ID limit
.\"O for writing lastlog entries.
lastlog エントリを更新するユーザの、最大のユーザ ID 番号。
大きいユーザ ID をリモートユーザの識別と認証サービスで常に追跡すると、
大きく疎らな lastlog ファイルを作成することになる。
設定に LASTLOG_UID_MAX オプションが存在しない場合、
lastlog エントリを書き込むユーザ ID の制限はなくなる。
.RE
.PP
.B LOG_UNKFAIL_ENAB
.\"O (boolean)
(ブール値)
.RS 4
.\"O Enable display of unknown usernames when login failures are recorded.
.\"O The default value is
.\"O .IR no .
ログインの失敗が記録される場合、不明なユーザ名の表示を有効化する。
デフォルト値は、
.I no
である。
.PP
.\"O Note that logging unknown usernames may be a security issue if a
.\"O user enters her password instead of her login name.
ユーザがログイン名ではなく、パスワードを入力してしまった場合、
不明やユーザ名をログに記録することで、セキュリティ問題になる
可能性がある点に注意すること。
.RE
.PP
.B ENV_PATH
.\"O (string)
(文字列)
.RS 4
.\"O If set, it will be used to define the PATH environment variable when
.\"O a regular user logs in.  The default value is
.\"O .I /usr\:/local\:/bin:\:/bin:\:/usr\:/bin
この値が設定されると、通常ユーザがログインする際の
PATH 環境変数を定義するために使われる。
デフォルト値は、
.I /usr\:/local\:/bin:\:/bin:\:/usr\:/bin
である。
.RE
.PP
.B ENV_ROOTPATH
.\"O (string)
(文字列)
.br
.B ENV_SUPATH
.\"O (string)
(文字列)
.RS 4
.\"O If set, it will be used to define the PATH environment variable when
.\"O the superuser logs in.  ENV_ROOTPATH takes precedence.  The default value is
.\"O .I /usr\:/local\:/sbin:\:/usr\:/local\:/bin:\:/sbin:\:/bin:\:/usr\:/sbin:\:/usr\:/bin
この値が設定されると、スーパーユーザがログインする際の
PATH 環境変数を定義するために使われる。
ENV_ROOTPATH が優先される。
デフォルト値は、
.I /usr\:/local\:/sbin:\:/usr\:/local\:/bin:\:/sbin:\:/bin:\:/usr\:/sbin:\:/usr\:/bin
である。
.RE
.\"O .SH FILES
.SH ファイル
.nf
.I /var/run/utmp
.I /var/log/wtmp
.I /var/log/lastlog
.I /var/spool/mail/*
.I /etc/motd
.I /etc/passwd
.I /etc/nologin
.I /etc/pam.d/login
.I /etc/pam.d/remote
.I /etc/hushlogins
.I .hushlogin
.fi
.\"O .SH "SEE ALSO"
.SH 関連項目
.BR mail (1),
.BR passwd (1),
.BR passwd (5),
.BR environ (7),
.BR getty (8),
.BR init (8),
.BR shutdown (8)
.\"O .SH BUGS
.SH バグ
The undocumented BSD
.B \-r
option is not supported.  This may be required by some
.BR rlogind (8)
programs.
.PP
A recursive login, as used to be possible in the good old days, no
longer works; for most purposes
.BR su (1)
is a satisfactory substitute.  Indeed, for security reasons, login
does a vhangup() system call to remove any possible listening
processes on the tty.  This is to avoid password sniffing.  If one
uses the command
.BR login ,
then the surrounding shell gets killed by vhangup() because it's no
longer the true owner of the tty.  This can be avoided by using
.B exec login
in a top-level shell or xterm.
.SH AUTHOR
Derived from BSD login 5.40 (5/9/89) by
.MT glad@\:daimi.\:dk
Michael Glad
.ME
for HP-UX
.br
Ported to Linux 0.12:
.MT poe@\:daimi.\:aau.\:dk
Peter Orbaek
.ME
.br
Rewritten to a PAM-only version by
.MT kzak@\:redhat.\:com
Karel Zak
.ME
.SH AVAILABILITY
The login command is part of the util-linux package and is
available from
.UR https://\:www.kernel.org\:/pub\:/linux\:/utils\:/util-linux/
Linux Kernel Archive
.UE .
