.\"
.\" Japanese Version Copyright (c) 2020 Yuichi SATO
.\"         all rights reserved.
.\" Translated Sat Apr 11 02:31:57 JST 2020
.\"         by Yuichi SATO <ysato444@ybb.ne.jp>
.\"
.TH LSCPU 1 "March 2019" "util-linux" "User Commands"
.\"O .SH NAME
.SH 名前
.\"O lscpu \- display information about the CPU architecture
lscpu \- CPU アーキテクチャの情報を表示する。
.\"O .SH SYNOPSIS
.SH 書式
.B lscpu
[options]
.\"O .SH DESCRIPTION
.SH 説明
.\"O .B lscpu
.\"O gathers CPU architecture information from sysfs, /proc/cpuinfo and any
.\"O applicable architecture-specific libraries (e.g.\& librtas on Powerpc).  The
.\"O command output can be optimized for parsing or for easy readability by humans.
.B lscpu
は CPU アーキテクチャ情報を sysfs, /proc/cpuinfo と
利用可能なアーキテクチャ固有のライブラリ (例えば、Powerpc の librtas) から収集する。
コマンドの出力は、解析しやすいように最適化したり、
人が読みやすいように最適化できる。
.\"O The information includes, for example, the number of CPUs, threads, cores,
.\"O sockets, and Non-Uniform Memory Access (NUMA) nodes.  There is also information
.\"O about the CPU caches and cache sharing, family, model, bogoMIPS, byte order,
.\"O and stepping.
この情報には、例えば、CPU、スレッド、コア、ソケット、
Non-Uniform Memory Access (NUMA) ノードの数などが含まれる。
また、CPU のキャッシュ、キャッシュ共有、ファミリー、モデル、
bogoMIPS、バイト順序、ステッピングなどの情報も含まれる。
.sp
.\"O In virtualized environments, the CPU architecture information displayed
.\"O reflects the configuration of the guest operating system which is
.\"O typically different from the physical (host) system.  On architectures that
.\"O support retrieving physical topology information,
.\"O .B lscpu
.\"O also displays the number of physical sockets, chips, cores in the host system.
仮想化環境では、表示される CPU アーキテクチャ情報は、
ゲスト OS の設定を反映しており、物理 (ホスト) システムとは特に異なる。
物理トポロジー情報の取得をサポートしているアーキテクチャでは、
.B lscpu
はホストシステム上の物理ソケット、チップ、コアの数も表示する。
.sp
.\"O Options that result in an output table have a \fIlist\fP argument.  Use this
.\"O argument to customize the command output.  Specify a comma-separated list of
.\"O column labels to limit the output table to only the specified columns, arranged
.\"O in the specified order.  See \fBCOLUMNS\fP for a list of valid column labels.  The
.\"O column labels are not case sensitive.
出力テーブルに影響するオプションには、\fIlist\fP 引き数がある。
コマンド出力をカスタマイズするためには、この引き数を使うこと。
カンマ区切りのカラムラベルを指定すると、出力テーブルは指定されたカラム
のみに限定され、指定された順番に表示される。
有効なカラムラベルのリストは、\fBカラム\fP を参照すること。
カラムラベルは大文字小文字を無視する。
.sp
.\"O Not all columns are supported on all architectures.  If an unsupported column is
.\"O specified, \fBlscpu\fP prints the column but does not provide any data for it.
全てのアーキテクチャで、全てのカラムがサポートされているわけではない。
サポートされていないカラムが指定された場合、\fBlscpu\fP はカラム名を表示するが、
データは提供しない。
.sp
.\"O The default output formatting on terminal maybe optimized for better
.\"O readability.  The output for non-terminals (e.g. pipes) is never affected by
.\"O this optimization and it is always in "Field: data\\n" format.
端末上でのデフォルトの出力形式は、より読みやすいように最適化されている。
端末以外 (例えば、パイプ) での出力は、この最適化の影響を受けず、
常に "Field: data\\n" 形式である。
.\"O .SS COLUMNS
.SS カラム
.\"O Note that topology elements (core, socket, etc.) use a sequential unique ID
.\"O starting from zero, but CPU logical numbers follow the kernel where there is
.\"O no guarantee of sequential numbering.
トポロジー要素 (コア、ソケットなど) は、0 で始まる連続した一意の ID を使う。
しかし、CPU の論理番号はカーネルに従い、連続した番号である保証はない。
.TP
.B CPU
.\"O The logical CPU number of a CPU as used by the Linux kernel.
Linux カーネルが使う CPU の論理 CPU 数。
.TP
.B CORE
.\"O The logical core number.  A core can contain several CPUs.
論理コア数。コアは複数の CPU を持つ。
.TP
.B SOCKET
.\"O The logical socket number.  A socket can contain several cores.
論理ソケット数。ソケットは複数のコアを持つ。
.TP
.B BOOK
.\"O The logical book number.  A book can contain several sockets.
論理ブック数。ブックは複数のソケットを持つ。
.TP
.B DRAWER
.\"O The logical drawer number.  A drawer can contain several books.
論理ドロワー数。ドロワーは複数のブックを持つ。
.TP
.B NODE
.\"O The logical NUMA node number.  A node can contain several drawers.
論理 NUMA ノード数。ノードは複数のドロワーを持つ。
.TP
.B CACHE
.\"O Information about how caches are shared between CPUs.
キャッシュがどのように CPU で共有されているかの情報。
.TP
.B ADDRESS
.\"O The physical address of a CPU.
CPU の物理アドレス。
.TP
.B ONLINE
.\"O Indicator that shows whether the Linux instance currently makes use of the CPU.
この指標は、Linux インスタンスが CPU を現在使用しているかを表す。
.TP
.B CONFIGURED
.\"O Indicator that shows if the hypervisor has allocated the CPU to the virtual
.\"O hardware on which the Linux instance runs.  CPUs that are configured can be set
.\"O online by the Linux instance.
.\"O This column contains data only if your hardware system and hypervisor support
.\"O dynamic CPU resource allocation.
この指標は、Linux インスタンスが稼働する仮想ハードウェアに、
ハイパーバイザーが CPU を割り当てたかを表す。
設定された CPU は、Linux インスタンスによってオンラインにできる。
このカラムには、ハードウェアシステムとハイパーバイザーが
動的 CPU リソース割り当てをサポートしている場合にのみ、データが含まれる。
.TP
.B POLARIZATION
.\"O This column contains data for Linux instances that run on virtual hardware with
.\"O a hypervisor that can switch the CPU dispatching mode (polarization).  The
.\"O polarization can be:
このカラムには、CPU の分配モード (分極化: polarization) を切り替えられる
ハイパーバイザーを持つ仮想ハードウェア上で実行される Linux インスタンスのデータが含まれる。
分極化は以下のいずれかである:
.RS
.TP 12
.B horizontal\fP
.\"O The workload is spread across all available CPUs.
負荷を利用可能な全ての CPU に分散する。
.TP 12
.B vertical
.\"O The workload is concentrated on few CPUs.
負荷を特定の CPU に集中させる。
.P
.\"O For vertical polarization, the column also shows the degree of concentration,
.\"O high, medium, or low.  This column contains data only if your hardware system
.\"O and hypervisor support CPU polarization.
垂直分極化 (vertical polarization) では、
集中の度合いが high, medium, low　でカラムに表示される。
ハードウェアシステムとハイパーバイザーが CPU の分極化をサポートしている場合にのみ、
このカラムにはデータが含まれる。
.RE
.TP
.B MAXMHZ
.\"O Maximum megahertz value for the CPU. Useful when \fBlscpu\fP is used as hardware
.\"O inventory information gathering tool.  Notice that the megahertz value is
.\"O dynamic, and driven by CPU governor depending on current resource need.
CPU の最大 MHz の値。
これは \fBlscpu\fP をハードウェアの明細情報の収集ツールとして使う場合に有用である。
この MHz の値は、動的であり、現在のリソースの必要性に応じて
CPU の調整装置で変更される。
.TP
.B MINMHZ
.\"O Minimum megahertz value for the CPU.
CPU の最小 MHz の値。
.\"O .SH OPTIONS
.SH オプション
.TP
.BR \-a , " \-\-all"
.\"O Include lines for online and offline CPUs in the output (default for \fB-e\fR).
.\"O This option may only be specified together with option \fB-e\fR or \fB-p\fR.
オンラインとオフラインの CPU の情報を出力に含める (\fB-e\fR のデフォルト)。
このオプションは、オプション \fB-e\fR または \fB-p\fR とのみ一緒に指定できる。
.TP
.BR \-B , " \-\-bytes"
.\"O Print the sizes in bytes rather than in a human-readable format.
人が読みやすい形式ではなく、バイト単位でサイズを表示する。
.TP
.BR \-b , " \-\-online"
.\"O Limit the output to online CPUs (default for \fB-p\fR).
.\"O This option may only be specified together with option \fB-e\fR or \fB-p\fR.
出力をオンラインの CPU に限定する (\fB-p\fR のデフォルト)。
このオプションは、オプション \fB-e\fR または \fB-p\fR とのみ一緒に指定できる。
.TP
.BR \-C , " \-\-caches" [=\fIlist\fP]
.\"O Display details about CPU caches.  For details about available information see \fB\-\-help\fR
.\"O output.
CPU キャッシュの詳細を表示する。
利用可能な情報の詳細は、\fB\-\-help\fR の出力を参照すること。

.\"O If the \fIlist\fP argument is omitted, all columns for which data is available
.\"O are included in the command output.
\fIlist\fP 引き数が省略された場合、データが利用可能な全てのカラムが、
コマンド出力に含まれる。

.\"O When specifying the \fIlist\fP argument, the string of option, equal sign (=), and
.\"O \fIlist\fP must not contain any blanks or other whitespace.
.\"O Examples: '\fB-C=NAME,ONE-SIZE\fP' or '\fB--caches=NAME,ONE-SIZE\fP'.
\fIlist\fP 引き数を指定する場合、オプションの文字列とイコール (=) を指定する。
\fIlist\fP には、ブランクまたは他の空白文字を含んではならない。
例: '\fB-C=NAME,ONE-SIZE\fP' または '\fB--caches=NAME,ONE-SIZE\fP'。
.TP
.BR \-c , " \-\-offline"
.\"O Limit the output to offline CPUs.
.\"O This option may only be specified together with option \fB-e\fR or \fB-p\fR.
出力をオフラインの CPU に限定する。
このオプションは、オプション \fB-e\fR または \fB-p\fR とのみ一緒に指定できる。
.TP
.BR \-e , " \-\-extended" [=\fIlist\fP]
.\"O Display the CPU information in human-readable format.
CPU 情報を人が読みやすい形式で表示する。

.\"O If the \fIlist\fP argument is omitted, all columns for which data is available
.\"O are included in the command output.
\fIlist\fP 引き数が省略された場合、データが取得可能な全てのカラムが、
コマンド出力に含まれる。

.\"O When specifying the \fIlist\fP argument, the string of option, equal sign (=), and
.\"O \fIlist\fP must not contain any blanks or other whitespace.
.\"O Examples: '\fB-e=cpu,node\fP' or '\fB--extended=cpu,node\fP'.
\fIlist\fP 引き数を指定する場合、オプションの文字列とイコール (=) を指定する。
\fIlist\fP には、ブランクまたは他の空白文字を含んではならない。
例: '\fB-e=cpu,node\fP' または '\fB--extended=cpu,node\fP'。
.TP
.BR \-h , " \-\-help"
.\"O Display help text and exit.
ヘルプを表示して、終了する。
.TP
.BR \-J , " \-\-json"
.\"O Use JSON output format for the default summary or extended output (see \fB\-\-extended\fP).
デフォルトのサマリと拡張出力 (\fB\-\-extended\fP を参照) について、
JSON 出力形式を使う。
.TP
.BR \-p , " \-\-parse" [=\fIlist\fP]
.\"O Optimize the command output for easy parsing.
コマンド出力を解析しやすいように最適化する。

.\"O If the \fIlist\fP argument is omitted, the command output is compatible with earlier
.\"O versions of \fBlscpu\fP.  In this compatible format, two commas are used to separate
.\"O CPU cache columns.  If no CPU caches are identified the cache column is omitted.
\fIlist\fP 引き数が省略された場合、コマンド出力は以前の \fBlscpu\fP バージョンと
互換性がある。
この互換形式では、CPU キャッシュカラムを区切るのに、2 つのカンマが使われる。
CPU キャッシュが確認できない場合、キャッシュカラムは省略される。
.br
.\"O If the \fIlist\fP argument is used, cache columns are separated with a colon (:).
\fIlist\fP 引き数が使われた場合、キャッシュカラムはコロン (:) で区切られる。

.\"O When specifying the \fIlist\fP argument, the string of option, equal sign (=), and
.\"O \fIlist\fP must not contain any blanks or other whitespace.
.\"O Examples: '\fB-p=cpu,node\fP' or '\fB--parse=cpu,node\fP'.
\fIlist\fP 引き数を指定する場合、オプションの文字列とイコール (=) を指定する。
\fIlist\fP には、ブランクまたは他の空白文字を含んではならない。
例: '\fB-p=cpu,node\fP' または '\fB--parse=cpu,node\fP'。
.TP
.BR \-s , " \-\-sysroot " \fIdirectory\fP
.\"O Gather CPU data for a Linux instance other than the instance from which the
.\"O \fBlscpu\fP command is issued.  The specified \fIdirectory\fP is the system root
.\"O of the Linux instance to be inspected.
\fBlscpu\fP コマンドが発行された Linux インスタンス以外の、
インスタンスの CPU データを収集する。
指定された \fIdirectory\fP は、調査する Linux インスタンスのシステムルートである。
.TP
.BR \-x , " \-\-hex"
.\"O Use hexadecimal masks for CPU sets (for example "ff").  The default is to print
.\"O the sets in list format (for example 0,1).  Note that before version 2.30 the mask
.\"O has been printed with 0x prefix.
CPU セットに対して 16 進数のマスクを使う (例えば "ff")。
デフォルトは、リスト形式のセットを表示する (例えば 0,1)。
バージョン 2.30 以前では、マスクはプレフィックス 0x を付けて表示されていた点に注意すること。
.TP
.BR \-y , " \-\-physical"
.\"O Display physical IDs for all columns with topology elements (core, socket, etc.).
.\"O Other than logical IDs, which are assigned by \fBlscpu\fP, physical IDs are
.\"O platform-specific values that are provided by the kernel. Physical IDs are not
.\"O necessarily unique and they might not be arranged sequentially.
.\"O If the kernel could not retrieve a physical ID for an element \fBlscpu\fP prints
.\"O the dash (-) character.
トポロジー要素 (コア、ソケットなど) の全てのカラムに対して、
論理 ID ではなく、物理 ID を表示する。
論理 ID は \fBlscpu\fP によって割り当てられたものであり、
物理 ID はカーネルによって提供されるプラットフォーム固有の値である。
物理 ID は一意である必要はなく、順番に割り当てられていない可能性がある。
カーネルがトポロジー要素の物理 ID を取得できない場合、
\fBlscpu\fP はダッシュ (-) 文字を表示する。

.\"O The CPU logical numbers are not affected by this option.
CPU の論理番号は、このオプションに影響されない。
.TP
.BR \-V , " \-\-version"
.\"O Display version information and exit.
バージョン情報を表示して、終了する。
.TP
.B \-\-output\-all
.\"O Output all available columns.  This option must be combined with either
.\"O .BR \-\-extended ", " \-\-parse " or " \-\-caches .
全ての利用可能なカラムを出力する。
このオプションは、
.BR \-\-extended ", " \-\-parse ", " \-\-caches
のいずれかと組み合わせなければならない。
.\"O .SH BUGS
.SH バグ
.\"O The basic overview of CPU family, model, etc. is always based on the first
.\"O CPU only.
CPU のファミリー、モデルなどの概要は、常に最初の CPU にのみ基づいている。

.\"O Sometimes in Xen Dom0 the kernel reports wrong data.
Xen Dom0 では時折、カーネルが間違ったデータを報告することがある。

.\"O On virtual hardware the number of cores per socket, etc. can be wrong.
仮想ハードウェアでは、ソケットあたりのコア数などが正しくない場合がある。
.\"O .SH AUTHOR
.SH 著者
.nf
Cai Qian <qcai@redhat.com>
Karel Zak <kzak@redhat.com>
Heiko Carstens <heiko.carstens@de.ibm.com>
.fi
.\"O .SH "SEE ALSO"
.SH 関連項目
.BR chcpu (8)
.\"O .SH AVAILABILITY
.SH 入手方法
.\"O The lscpu command is part of the util-linux package and is available from
.\"O https://www.kernel.org/pub/linux/utils/util-linux/.
lscpu コマンドは util-linux パッケージの一部であり、
https://www.kernel.org/pub/linux/utils/util-linux/
から入手できる。
