.\" Copyright 2014 Ondrej Oprala (ondrej.oprala@gmail.com)
.\" May be distributed under the GNU General Public License
.\"
.\" Japanese Version Copyright (c) 2020 Yuichi SATO
.\"         all rights reserved.
.\" Translated Sat Apr 11 14:19:10 JST 2020
.\"         by Yuichi SATO <ysato444@ybb.ne.jp>
.\"
.TH LSLOGINS "1" "April 2014" "util-linux" "User Commands"
.\"O .SH NAME
.SH 名前
.\"O lslogins \- display information about known users in the system
lslogins \- システム上の既知のユーザーの情報を表示する。
.\"O .SH SYNOPSIS
.SH 書式
.B lslogins
[options]
.RB [ \-s | \-u [ =\fIUID ]]
.RB [ \-g " \fIgroups\fR]"
.RB [ \-l " \fIlogins\fR]"
.RB [\fIusername\fR]
.\"O .SH DESCRIPTION
.SH 説明
.PP
.\"O Examine the wtmp and btmp logs, /etc/shadow (if necessary) and /etc/passwd
.\"O and output the desired data.
wtmp ログ、btmp ログ、/etc/shadow (必要な場合) 、/etc/passwd を調べ、
必要なデータを出力する。

.\"O The optional argument \fIusername\fR forces
.\"O .BR lslogins
.\"O to print all available details about the specified user only. In this case the
.\"O output format is different than in case of \fB\-l\fR or \fB\-g\fR and unknown
.\"O is \fIusername\fR reported as an error.
オプションの引き数 \fIusername\fR を指定すると、
.BR lslogins
は指定されたユーザーのみの入手可能な全ての情報を表示する。
この場合、出力形式は \fB\-l\fR または \fB\-g\fR の場合と異なる。
\fIusername\fR が不明な場合、エラーを返す。

.PP
.\"O The default action is to list info about all the users in the system.
デフォルトの動作では、システム上の全てのユーザーの情報を表示する。
.\"O .SH OPTIONS
.SH オプション
.\"O Mandatory arguments to long options are mandatory for short options too.
長い形式のオプションで必須な引き数は、短い形式のオプションでも必須である。
.TP
\fB\-a\fR, \fB\-\-acc\-expiration\fR
.\"O Display data about the date of last password change and the account expiration
.\"O date (see \fBshadow\fR(5) for more info).  (Requires root privileges.)
パスワードの最終更新日と、アカウントの失効日の情報を表示する
(より詳細は \fBshadow\fR(5) を参照すること)。
(root 権限が必要である。)
.TP
\fB\-\-btmp\-file \fIpath\fP
.\"O Alternate path for btmp.
btmp の別のパス名。
.TP
\fB\-c\fR, \fB\-\-colon\-separate\fR
.\"O Separate info about each user with a colon instead of a newline.
各ユーザの情報を改行ではなくコロンで区切る。
.TP
\fB\-e\fR, \fB\-\-export\fR
.\"O Output data in the format of NAME=VALUE.
データを NAME=VALUE の形式で出力する。
.TP
\fB\-f\fR, \fB\-\-failed\fR
.\"O Display data about the users' last failed login attempts.

.TP
\fB\-G\fR, \fB\-\-supp\-groups\fR
.\"O Show information about supplementary groups.
補助 (supplementary) グループの情報を表示する。
.TP
\fB\-g\fR, \fB\-\-groups\fR=\fIgroups\fR
.\"O Only show data of users belonging to \fIgroups\fR.  More than one group
.\"O may be specified; the list has to be comma-separated.  The unknown group
.\"O names are ignored.
\fIgroups\fR に所属するユーザーの情報のみを表示する。
1 つ以上のグループを指定できる。この場合、リストはカンマで区切る。
不明なグループ名は無視される。

.\"O Note that relation between user and group may be invisible for primary group if
.\"O the user is not explicitly specify as group member (e.g. in /etc/group). If the
.\"O command lslogins scans for groups than it uses groups database only, and user
.\"O database with primary GID is not used at all.
ユーザーが明示的にグループメンバー　(例えば、/etc/group) として指定されていない場合、
プライマリグループについて、ユーザーとグループの関係が分からない
点に注意すること。
コマンド lslogins は、グループデータベースのみを使うのではなく、グループを
スキャンするので、プライマリ GID を持つユーザーデータベースは全く使われない。
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
.\"O Display help information and exit.
ヘルプ情報を表示して、終了する。
.TP
\fB\-L\fR, \fB\-\-last\fR
.\"O Display data containing information about the users' last login sessions.
ユーザーの最終ログインセッションの情報を含むデータを表示する。
.TP
\fB\-l\fR, \fB\-\-logins\fR=\fIlogins\fR
.\"O Only show data of users with a login specified in \fIlogins\fR (user names or user
.\"O IDS).  More than one login may be specified; the list has to be comma-separated.
.\"O The unknown login names are ignored.
\fIlogins\fR に指定されたログイン情報 (ユーザー名またはユーザー ID) の
ユーザーの情報のみを表示する。
1 つ以上のログイン情報を指定できる。
リストはカンマ区切りの必要がある。
不明なログイン名は無視される。
.TP
\fB\-n\fR, \fB\-\-newline\fR
.\"O Display each piece of information on a separate line.
各情報の塊を各行に書き出す。
.TP
\fB\-\-noheadings\fR
.\"O Do not print a header line.
ヘッダ行を表示しない。
.TP
\fB\-\-notruncate\fR
.\"O Don't truncate output.
出力を切り詰めない。
.TP
\fB\-o\fR, \fB\-\-output \fIlist\fP
.\"O Specify which output columns to print. 
.\"O The default list of columns may be extended if \fIlist\fP is
.\"O specified in the format \fI+list\fP.
どの出力カラムを表示するかを指定する。
\fIlist\fP を \fI+list\fP の形式で指定することで、
デフォルトのカラムのリストを拡張できる。
.TP
.B \-\-output\-all
.\"O Output all available columns.
.\"O .B \-\-help
.\"O to get a list of all supported columns.
利用可能な全てのカラムを出力する。
サポートされる全てのカラムのリストは、
.B \-\-help
で取得できる。
.TP
\fB\-p\fR, \fB\-\-pwd\fR
.\"O Display information related to login by password (see also \fB\-afL).
パスワードでのログインに関連した情報を表示する (\fB\-afL も参照すること)。
.TP
\fB\-r\fR, \fB\-\-raw\fR
.\"O Raw output (no columnation).
(カラム揃えをしない) 生の出力。
.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-system\-accs\fR
.\"O Show system accounts.  These are by default all accounts with a UID between 101 and 999
.\"O (inclusive), with the exception of either nobody or nfsnobody (UID 65534).
.\"O This hardcoded default may be overwritten by parameters SYS_UID_MIN and SYS_UID_MAX in
.\"O the file /etc/login.defs.
システムアカウントを表示する。
Show system accounts.  These are by default all accounts with a UID between 101 and 999
(inclusive), with the exception of either nobody or nfsnobody (UID 65534).
This hardcoded default may be overwritten by parameters SYS_UID_MIN and SYS_UID_MAX in
the file /etc/login.defs.
.TP
\fB\-\-time\-format\fR \fItype\fP
.\"O Display dates in short, full or iso format.  The default is short, this time
.\"O format is designed to be space efficient and human readable.
時間を short, full, iso 形式で表示する。
デフォルトは short で、この時間形式はスペースを使わず、人が読みやすいように設計
されている。
.TP
\fB\-u\fR, \fB\-\-user\-accs\fR
Show user accounts.  These are by default all accounts with UID above 1000
(inclusive), with the exception of either nobody or nfsnobody (UID 65534).
This hardcoded default maybe overwritten by parameters UID_MIN and UID_MAX in
the file /etc/login.defs.
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
.\"O Display version information and exit.
バージョン情報を表示して、終了する。
.TP
\fB\-\-wtmp\-file \fIpath\fP
.\"O Alternate path for wtmp.
wtmp の別のパス名。
.TP
\fB\-Z\fR, \fB\-\-context\fR
.\"O Display the users' security context.
ユーザーのセキュリティコンテキストを表示する。
.TP
\fB\-z\fR, \fB\-\-print0\fR
.\"O Delimit user entries with a nul character, instead of a newline.
ユーザーのエントリを、改行ではなく、nul 文字で区切る。

.SH NOTES
The default UID thresholds are read from /etc/login.defs.

.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
0
if OK,
.TP
1
if incorrect arguments specified,
.TP
2
if a serious error occurs (e.g. a corrupt log).
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBgroup\fP(5), \fBpasswd\fP(5), \fBshadow\fP(5), \fButmp\fP(5)
.SH HISTORY
The \fBlslogins\fP utility is inspired by the \fBlogins\fP utility, which first appeared in FreeBSD 4.10.
.SH AUTHORS
.MT ooprala@redhat.com
Ondrej Oprala
.ME
.br
.MT kzak@redhat.com
Karel Zak
.ME

.SH AVAILABILITY
The lslogins command is part of the util-linux package and is available from
.UR https://\:www.kernel.org\:/pub\:/linux\:/utils\:/util-linux/
Linux Kernel Archive
.UE .
