.\" Copyright (c) 1988, 1990 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" Copyright (c) 1988 Mark Nudleman
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	@(#)more.1	5.15 (Berkeley) 7/29/91
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1992 Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\"
.\" Japanese Version Copyright (c) 1998 Shinji Orito all rights reserved.
.\"     Translated Sun Jul  5 18:55:01 JST 1998
.\"             by Shinji Orito <shinji@os.gulf.or.jp>
.\" Updated Mon Aug 20 JST 2001 by Kentaro Shirakata <argrath@ub32.org>
.\" Updated & Modified Mon Jul 29 17:17:28 JST 2019
.\"         by Yuichi SATO <ysato444@ybb.ne.jp>
.\"
.\"WORD:	logical	論理行
.\"
.TH MORE "1" "February 2014" "util-linux" "User Commands"
.\"O .SH NAME
.SH 名前
.\"O more \- file perusal filter for crt viewing
more \- CRT でファイルを閲覧するためのフィルター
.\"O .SH SYNOPSIS
.SH 書式
.B more
[options]
.IR file ...
.\"O .SH DESCRIPTION
.SH 説明
.\"O .B more
.\"O is a filter for paging through text one screenful at a time.  This version is
.\"O especially primitive.  Users should realize that
.\"O .BR less (1)
.\"O provides
.\"O .BR more (1)
.\"O emulation plus extensive enhancements.
.B more
は、テキストを一画面ずつ表示するフィルターである。
本コマンドは基本的な機能だけを備えている。
.BR less (1)
は
.BR more (1)
をエミュレートし、さらに拡張機能を有する。
.\"O .SH OPTIONS
.SH オプション
.\"O Options are also taken from the environment variable
.\"O .B MORE
.\"O (make sure to precede them with a dash
.\"O .RB ( \- ))
.\"O but command-line options will override those.
オプションは環境変数
.B MORE
によっても指定される (必ず
.RB ( \- )
(ダッシュ) を前につけること) が、
コマンドラインオプションが優先される。
.TP
.B \-d
.\"O Prompt with "[Press space to continue, 'q' to quit.]",
.\"O and display "[Press 'h' for instructions.]" instead of ringing
.\"O the bell when an illegal key is pressed.
"[スペースキーを押すと続き、'q' で終了。]" とユーザーに促し、
不適切なキー入力に対しては、
ビープ音を鳴らす代わりに "['h' キーで操作方法]" と表示する。
.TP
.B \-l
.\"O Do not pause after any line containing a
.\"O .B \&^L
.\"O (form feed).
.B \&^L
(改頁) を含む行で停止しない。
.TP
.B \-f
.\"O Count logical lines, rather than screen lines (i.e., long lines are not folded).
画面行数の代わりに、論理行をカウントする。
(すなわち、長い行が折り返されない。)
.TP
.B \-p
.\"O Do not scroll.  Instead, clear the whole screen and then display the text.
スクロールしない。
その代わりに、全画面消去してからテキストを表示する。
.\"O Notice that this option is switched on automatically if the executable is
.\"O named
.\"O .BR page .
このオプションは、実行ファイルが
.B page
という名前の場合、自動的に有効にされる。
.TP
.B \-c
.\"O Do not scroll.  Instead, paint each screen from the top, clearing the
.\"O remainder of each line as it is displayed.
スクロールしない。
その代わりに、表示されたままの行を消しながら、上端から各画面を
表示する。
.TP
.B \-s
.\"O Squeeze multiple blank lines into one.
複数の空行を一行にする。
.TP
.B \-u
.\"O Suppress underlining.
下線を付けない。
.TP
.BI \- number
.\"O The screen size to use, in
.\"O .I number
.\"O of lines.
スクリーンサイズを
.I number
行に指定する。
.TP
.BI + number
.\"O Start displaying each file at line
.\"O .IR number .
各ファイルを
.I number
行目から表示する。
.TP
.BI +/ string
.\"O The
.\"O .I string
.\"O to be searched in each file before starting to display it.
各ファイルが表示される前に
.I string
を検索する。
.TP
\fB\-\-help\fR
.\"O Display help text and exit.
ヘルプを表示して、終了する。
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
.\"O Display version information and exit.
バージョン情報を表示して、終了する。
.\"O .SH COMMANDS
.SH コマンド
.\"O Interactive commands for
.\"O .B more
.\"O are based on
.\"O .BR vi (1).
.B more
の対話的コマンドは、
.BR vi (1)
をベースにしている。
.\"O Some commands may be preceded by a decimal number, called k in the
.\"O descriptions below.  In the following descriptions,
幾つかのコマンドは、10 進数値を前につけることができる。
下記の説明においてはその数値は k と表されている。
.\"O .B ^X
.\"O means
.\"O .BR control-X .
.B ^X
は
.B control-X
を表す。
.PP
.RS
.PD 1
.TP 10
.\"O .BR h \ or \ ?
.BR h \ または \ ?
.\"O Help; display a summary of these commands.  If you forget all other
.\"O commands, remember this one.
ヘルプ。これらのコマンドのまとめを表示する。
もし他のコマンドをすっかり忘れたのなら、
これを思い出すと良い。
.TP
.B SPACE
.\"O Display next k lines of text.  Defaults to current screen size.
k 行先を表示する。
デフォルトは現在の画面行数。
.TP
.B z
.\"O Display next k lines of text.  Defaults to current screen size.  Argument
.\"O becomes new default.
k 行先を表示する。
デフォルトは、現在の画面行数。
引数が新たなデフォルトとなる。
.TP
.B RETURN
.\"O Display next k lines of text.  Defaults to 1.  Argument becomes new default.
k 行先を表示する。
デフォルトは 1。
引数が新たなデフォルトとなる。
.TP
.\"O .BR d \ or \ \&^D
.BR d \ または \ \&^D
.\"O Scroll k lines.  Default is current scroll size, initially 11.  Argument
.\"O becomes new default.
k 行スクロールする。
デフォルトは現在のスクロールサイズ、最初は 11。
引数が新たなデフォルトとなる。
.TP
.\"O .BR q \ or \ Q \ or \ INTERRUPT
.BR q \ または \ Q \ または \ INTERRUPT
.\"O Exit.
終了する。
.TP
.B s
.\"O Skip forward k lines of text.  Defaults to 1.
k 行先にスキップする。
デフォルトは 1。
.TP
.B f
.\"O Skip forward k screenfuls of text.  Defaults to 1.
k 回画面をスクロールする。
デフォルトは 1。
.TP
.\"O .BR b \ or \ \&^B
.BR b \ または \ \&^B
.\"O Skip backwards k screenfuls of text.  Defaults to 1.  Only works with files,
.\"O not pipes.
k 回画面をバックスクロールする。
デフォルトは 1。
ファイルに対してのみ動作する。パイプに対しては動作しない。
.TP
.B '
.\"O Go to the place where the last search started.
前回検索を開始した場所に戻る。
.TP
.B =
.\"O Display current line number.
現在の行数を表示する。
.TP
.B \&/pattern
.\"O Search for kth occurrence of regular expression.  Defaults to 1.
正規表現に k 回目に合致する文字列を検索する。
デフォルトは 1。
.TP
.B n
.\"O Search for kth occurrence of last regular expression.  Defaults to 1.
前回指定した正規表現に k 回目に合致する文字列を検索する。
デフォルトは 1。
.TP
.\"O .BR !command \ or \ :!command
.BR !command \ または \ :!command
.\"O Execute
.\"O .I command
.\"O in a subshell.
.I command
をサブシェルで実行する。
.TP
.B v
.\"O Start up an editor at current line.  The editor is taken from the environment
.\"O variable
.\"O .B VISUAL
.\"O if defined, or
.\"O .B EDITOR
.\"O if
.\"O .B VISUAL
.\"O is not defined, or defaults
.\"O to
.\"O .B vi
.\"O if neither
.\"O .B VISUAL
.\"O nor
.\"O .B EDITOR
.\"O is defined.
現在の行でエディタを起動する。
エディタは、環境変数
.B VISUAL
が定義されていれば
.B VISUAL
から、
.B VISUAL
が未定義で、
.B EDITOR
が定義されていれば
.B EDITOR
で指定されているものを起動する。
どちらも未定義ならデフォルトとして
.B vi
を起動する。
.TP
.B \&^L
.\"O Redraw screen.
画面を再描画する。
.TP
.B :n
.\"O Go to kth next file.  Defaults to 1.
k 個目のファイルに移動する。
デフォルトは 1。
.TP
.B :p
.\"O Go to kth previous file.  Defaults to 1.
k 個前のファイルに移動する。
デフォルトは 1。
.TP
.B :f
.\"O Display current file name and line number.
ファイル名と行数を表示する。
.TP
.B \&.
.\"O Repeat previous command.
前回のコマンドを繰り返す。
.\"O .SH ENVIRONMENT
.SH 環境変数
.\"O The
.\"O .B more
.\"O command respects the following environment variables, if they exist:
.B more
コマンドは、下記の環境変数があれば適用する。
.TP
.B MORE
.\"O This variable may be set with favored options to
.\"O .BR more .
.B more
に対する好みのオプションをセットする。
.TP
.B SHELL
.\"O Current shell in use (normally set by the shell at login time).
使用中のシェル (通常ログイン時にシェルによってセットされる)。
.TP
.B TERM
.\"O The terminal type used by \fBmore\fR to get the terminal
.\"O characteristics necessary to manipulate the screen.
\fBmore\fR が使用するターミナルタイプ。
スクリーン操作に必要なターミナルの特徴を得るために利用される。
.TP
.B VISUAL
.\"O The editor the user prefers.  Invoked when command key
.\"O .I v
.\"O is pressed.
ユーザが使用したいエディタ。
コマンドキー
.I v
が押された場合に起動される。
.TP
.B EDITOR
.\"O The editor of choice when
.\"O .B VISUAL
.\"O is not specified.
.B VISUAL
が指定されていない場合のエディタの選択肢。
.\"O .SH SEE ALSO
.SH 関連項目
.BR less (1),
.BR vi (1)
.\"O .SH AUTHORS
.SH 著者
Eric Shienbrood, UC Berkeley
.br
.\"O Modified by Geoff Peck, UCB to add underlining, single spacing
Geoff Peck, UCB が下線と 1 つ空白にする修正を行った。
.br
.\"O Modified by John Foderaro, UCB to add -c and MORE environment variable
John Foderaro, UCB が -c と MORE 環境変数の追加を行った。
.\"O .SH HISTORY
.SH 履歴
.\"O The
.\"O .B more
.\"O command appeared in 3.0BSD.  This man page documents
.\"O .B more
.\"O version 5.19 (Berkeley 6/29/88), which is currently in use in the Linux
.\"O community.  Documentation was produced using several other versions of the
.\"O man page, and extensive inspection of the source code.
.Nm more
コマンドは 3.0BSD に登場した。
この man ページは
現在 Linux コミュニティで利用されている
.B more
バージョン 5.19 (Berkeley 6/29/88) について書かれている。
ドキュメントの作成に当っては、他の数種類のバージョンの man ページを利用し、
ソースコードの徹底的なチェックを行った。
.\"O .SH AVAILABILITY
.SH 入手方法
.\"O The more command is part of the util-linux package and is available from
.\"O .UR https://\:www.kernel.org\:/pub\:/linux\:/utils\:/util-linux/
.\"O Linux Kernel Archive
.\"O .UE .
more コマンドは、util-linux パッケージの一部であり、
.UR https://\:www.kernel.org\:/pub\:/linux\:/utils\:/util-linux/
Linux Kernel Archive
.UE
から入手できる。
