.\"
.\" Japanese Version Copyright (c) 2020 Yuichi SATO
.\"         all rights reserved.
.\" Translated Sat Apr 11 19:43:38 JST 2020
.\"         by Yuichi SATO <ysato444@ybb.ne.jp>
.\"
.TH MOUNTPOINT 1 "July 2014" "util-linux" "User Commands"
.\"O .SH NAME
.SH 名前
.\"O mountpoint \- see if a directory or file is a mountpoint
mountpoint \- ディレクトリまたはファイルがマウントポイントかを見分ける。
.\"O .SH SYNOPSIS
.SH 書式
.B mountpoint
.RB [ \-d | \-q ]
.I directory
|
.I file
.sp
.B mountpoint
.B \-x
.I device

.\"O .SH DESCRIPTION
.SH 説明
.\"O .B mountpoint
.\"O checks whether the given
.\"O .I directory
.\"O or
.\"O .I file
.\"O is mentioned in the /proc/self/mountinfo file.
.B mountpoint
は、指定された
.I directory
または
.I file
が /proc/self/mountinfo に記載されているかをチェックする。
.\"O .SH OPTIONS
.SH オプション
.TP
.BR \-d , " \-\-fs\-devno"
.\"O Show the major/minor numbers of the device that is mounted on the given
.\"O directory.
指定されたディレクトリにマウントされてるデバイスの
メジャー/マイナー番号を表示する。
.TP
.BR \-q , " \-\-quiet"
.\"O Be quiet - don't print anything.
静かにする - 何も表示しない。
.TP
.BR \-x , " \-\-devno"
.\"O Show the major/minor numbers of the given blockdevice on standard output.
指定されたブロックデバイスのメジャー/マイナー番号を表示出力に
書き出す。
.TP
.BR \-V , " \-\-version"
.\"O Display version information and exit.
バージョン情報を表示して、終了する。
.TP
.BR \-h , " \-\-help"
.\"O Display help text and exit.
ヘルプを表示して、終了する。
.\"O .SH EXIT STATUS
.SH 返り値
.\"O Zero if the directory or file is a mountpoint, non-zero if not.
ディレクトリまたはファイルがマウントポイントの場合、0 を返す。
マウントポイントでない場合、0 以外を返す。
.\"O .SH AUTHOR
.SH 著者
.PP
Karel Zak <kzak@redhat.com>
.\"O .SH ENVIRONMENT
.SH 環境変数
.IP LIBMOUNT_DEBUG=all
.\"O enables libmount debug output.
libmount のデバッグ出力を有効にする。
.\"O .SH NOTES
.SH 注意
.PP
.\"O The util-linux
.\"O .B mountpoint
.\"O implementation was written from scratch for libmount.  The original version
.\"O for sysvinit suite was written by Miquel van Smoorenburg.
util-linux の
.B mountpoint
実装は、libmount のためにスクラッチで書かれた。
sysvinit スイートの元々のバージョンは、Miquel van Smoorenburg によって書かれた。

.\"O .SH SEE ALSO
.SH 関連項目
.BR mount (8)
.\"O .SH AVAILABILITY
.SH 入手方法
.\"O The mountpoint command is part of the util-linux package and is available from
.\"O https://www.kernel.org/pub/linux/utils/util-linux/.
mountpoint コマンドは util-linux パッケージの一部であり、
https://www.kernel.org/pub/linux/utils/util-linux/
から入手できる。
