.\"
.\" Japanese Version Copyright (c) 2020 Yuichi SATO
.\"         all rights reserved.
.\" Translated Sun Apr 12 01:20:21 JST 2020
.\"         by Yuichi SATO <ysato444@ybb.ne.jp>
.\"
.TH NSENTER 1 "June 2013" "util-linux" "User Commands"
.\"O .SH NAME
.SH 名前
.\"O nsenter \- run program with namespaces of other processes
nsenter \- 他のプロセスの名前空間でプログラムを実行する。
.\"O .SH SYNOPSIS
.SH 書式
.B nsenter
[options]
.RI [ program
.RI [ arguments ]]
.\"O .SH DESCRIPTION
.SH 説明
.\"O Enters the namespaces of one or more other processes and then executes the specified
.\"O \fIprogram\fP. If \fIprogram\fP is not given, then ``${SHELL}'' is run (default: /bin\:/sh).
他の 1 つ以上のプロセスの名前空間に入って、指定された \fIprogram\fP を実行する。
\fIprogram\fP が指定されない場合、``${SHELL}'' が実行される (デフォルト: /bin\:/sh)。
.PP
.\"O Enterable namespaces are:
入ることができる名前空間は以下の通り:
.TP
.B マウント名前空間
.\"O .B mount namespace
.\"O Mounting and unmounting filesystems will not affect the rest of the system,
.\"O except for filesystems which are explicitly marked as shared (with
.\"O \fBmount --make-\:shared\fP; see \fI/proc\:/self\:/mountinfo\fP for the
.\"O \fBshared\fP flag).
ファイルシステムのマウントとアンマウントが、他のファイルシステムに
影響しない。
ただし、明示的に共有 (shared) とマークされているファイルシステムは除く
(共有は \fBmount --make-\:shared\fP で行われる;
\fI/proc\:/self\:/mountinfo\fP の \fBshared\fP フラグを参照すること)。
.\"O For further details, see
.\"O .BR mount_namespaces (7)
.\"O and the discussion of the
.\"O .B CLONE_NEWNS
.\"O flag in
.\"O .BR clone (2).
より詳細は、
.BR mount_namespaces (7)
と、
.BR clone (2)
の
.B CLONE_NEWNS
フラグの議論を参照すること。
.TP
.B UTS 名前空間
.\"O .B UTS namespace
.\"O Setting hostname or domainname will not affect the rest of the system.
ホスト名とドメイン名の設定が、システムの他の部分に影響しない。
.\"O For further details, see
.\"O .BR namespaces (7)
.\"O and the discussion of the
.\"O .B CLONE_NEWUTS
.\"O flag in
.\"O .BR clone (2).
より詳細は、
.BR namespaces (7)
と
.BR clone (2)
の
.B CLONE_NEWUTS
の議論を参照すること。
.TP
.B IPC 名前空間
.\"O .B IPC namespace
.\"O The process will have an independent namespace for POSIX message queues
.\"O as well as System V message queues,
.\"O semaphore sets and shared memory segments.
POSIX メッセージキューと、System V メッセージキュー、
セマフォセット、共有メモリセグメントについて、プロセスは独立した
名前空間を持つ。
.\"O For further details, see
.\"O .BR namespaces (7)
.\"O and the discussion of the
.\"O .B CLONE_NEWIPC
.\"O flag in
.\"O .BR clone (2).
より詳細は、
.BR namespaces (7)
と
.BR clone (2)
の
.B CLONE_NEWIPC
フラグの議論を参照すること。
.TP
.B ネットワーク名前空間
.\"O .B network namespace
.\"O The process will have independent IPv4 and IPv6 stacks, IP routing tables,
.\"O firewall rules, the
.\"O .I /proc\:/net
.\"O and
.\"O .I /sys\:/class\:/net
.\"O directory trees, sockets, etc.
プロセスが独立した IPv4 と IPv6 スタック、IP ルーティングテーブル、
ファイアウォールルール、
.I /proc\:/net
と
.I /sys\:/class\:/net
のディレクトリツリー、ソケットなどを持つ。
.\"O For further details, see
.\"O .BR namespaces (7)
.\"O and the discussion of the
.\"O .B CLONE_NEWNET
.\"O flag in
.\"O .BR clone (2).
より詳細は、
.BR namespaces (7)
と
.BR clone (2)
の
.B CLONE_NEWNET
フラグの議論を参照すること。
.TP
.B PID 名前空間
.\"O .B PID namespace
.\"O Children will have a set of PID to process mappings separate from the
.\"O .B nsenter
.\"O process
.B nsenter
プロセスとは別に、子プロセスがプロセスマッピングをするための PID セットを持つ。
.\"O For further details, see
.\"O .BR pid_namespaces (7)
.\"O and
.\"O the discussion of the
.\"O .B CLONE_NEWPID
.\"O flag in
より詳細は、
.BR pid_namespaces (7)
と
.BR clone (2)
の
.B CLONE_NEWPID
フラグを参照すること。
.\"O .B nsenter
.\"O will fork by default if changing the PID namespace, so that the new program
.\"O and its children share the same PID namespace and are visible to each other.
PID 名前空間を変更する場合、デフォルトでは
.B nsenter
は fork を行う。
そのため、新しいプログラムとその子プロセスは、同じ PID 名前空間を共有し、
お互いに見えるようになる。
.\"O If \fB\-\-no\-fork\fP is used, the new program will be exec'ed without forking.
\fB\-\-no\-fork\fP が使われた場合、新しいプログラムは fork なしで exec される。
.TP
.B ユーザー名前空間
.\"O .B user namespace
.\"O The process will have a distinct set of UIDs, GIDs and capabilities.
プロセスが個別の UID、GID、ケーパビリティ (capabilities) のセットを持つ。
.\"O For further details, see
.\"O .BR user_namespaces (7)
.\"O and the discussion of the
.\"O .B CLONE_NEWUSER
.\"O flag in
.\"O .BR clone (2).
より詳細は、
.BR user_namespaces (7)
と
.BR clone (2)
の
.B CLONE_NEWUSER
フラグの議論を参照すること。
.TP
.B コントロールグループ (cgroup) 名前空間
.\"O .B cgroup namespace
.\"O The process will have a virtualized view of \fI/proc\:/self\:/cgroup\fP, and new
.\"O cgroup mounts will be rooted at the namespace cgroup root.
プロセスが \fI/proc\:/self\:/cgroup\fP の仮想化されたビューを持ち、
新しい cgroup マウントで名前空間の cgroup ルートがルートにされる。
.\"O For further details, see
.\"O .BR cgroup_namespaces (7)
.\"O and the discussion of the
.\"O .B CLONE_NEWCGROUP
.\"O flag in
.\"O .BR clone (2).
より詳細は、
.BR cgroup_namespaces (7)
と
.BR clone (2)
の
.B CLONE_NEWCGROUP
フラグの議論を参照すること。
.TP
.\"O See \fBclone\fP(2) for the exact semantics of the flags.
フラグの正確な意味は、\fBclone\fP(2) を参照すること。
.\"O .SH OPTIONS
.SH オプション
.\"O Various of the options below that relate to namespaces take an optional
.\"O .I file
.\"O argument.
下記の名前空間に関連したいろいろなオプションが、オプションとして
.I file
引き数をとる。
.\"O This should be one of the
.\"O .I /proc/[pid]/ns/*
.\"O files described in
.\"O .BR namespaces (7).
ファイルは
.BR namespaces (7)
に記載されている
.I /proc/[pid]/ns/*
ファイルのうちの 1 つでなければならない。
.TP
\fB\-a\fR, \fB\-\-all\fR
.\"O Enter all namespaces of the target process by the default
.\"O .I /proc/[pid]/ns/*
.\"O namespace paths. The default paths to the target process namespaces may be
.\"O overwritten by namespace specific options (e.g. --all --mount=[path]).
対象プロセスの全ての名前空間を、デフォルトの
.I /proc/[pid]/ns/*
名前空間パスに入れる。
対象プロセスの名前空間のデフォルトパスは、名前空間固有の
オプションで上書きできる (例えば --all --mount=[path])。

.\"O The user namespace will be ignored if the same as the caller's current user
.\"O namespace. It prevents a caller that has dropped capabilities from regaining
.\"O those capabilities via a call to setns().  See
.\"O .BR setns (2)
.\"O for more details.
呼び出し元の現在のユーザー名前空間と同じ場合、ユーザー名前空間は
無視される。
これは、ケーパビリティを削除した呼び出し元が、
setns() を呼び出して、そのケーパビリティを再取得することを防ぐ。
より詳細は
.BR setns (2)
を参照すること。
.TP
\fB\-t\fR, \fB\-\-target\fR \fIpid\fP
.\"O Specify a target process to get contexts from.  The paths to the contexts
.\"O specified by
.\"O .I pid
.\"O are:
コンテキストを取得する対象プロセスを指定する。
.I pid
で指定されるコンテキストのパスは以下の通り:
.RS
.PD 0
.IP "" 20
.TP
/proc/\fIpid\fR/ns/mnt
.\"O the mount namespace
マウント名前空間
.TP
/proc/\fIpid\fR/ns/uts
.\"O the UTS namespace
UTS 名前空間
.TP
/proc/\fIpid\fR/ns/ipc
.\"O the IPC namespace
IPC 名前空間
.TP
/proc/\fIpid\fR/ns/net
.\"O the network namespace
ネットワーク名前空間
.TP
/proc/\fIpid\fR/ns/pid
.\"O the PID namespace
PID 名前空間
.TP
/proc/\fIpid\fR/ns/user
.\"O the user namespace
ユーザー名前空間
.TP
/proc/\fIpid\fR/ns/cgroup
.\"O the cgroup namespace
cgroup 名前空間
.TP
/proc/\fIpid\fR/root
.\"O the root directory
ルートディレクトリ
.TP
/proc/\fIpid\fR/cwd
.\"O the working directory respectively
ワーキングディレクトリ
.PD
.RE
.TP
\fB\-m\fR, \fB\-\-mount\fR[=\fIfile\fR]
.\"O Enter the mount namespace.  If no file is specified, enter the mount namespace
.\"O of the target process.
マウント名前空間に入れる。
.I file
が指定されない場合、対象プロセスのマウント名前空間に入れる。
.\"O If
.\"O .I file
.\"O is specified, enter the mount namespace
.\"O specified by
.\"O .IR file .
.I file
が指定された場合、
.I file
で指定されたマウント名前空間に入れる。
.TP
\fB\-u\fR, \fB\-\-uts\fR[=\fIfile\fR]
.\"O Enter the UTS namespace.  If no file is specified, enter the UTS namespace of
.\"O the target process.
UTS 名前空間に入れる。
.I file
が指定されない場合、対象プロセスの UTS 名前空間に入れる。
.\"O If
.\"O .I file
.\"O is specified, enter the UTS namespace specified by
.\"O .IR file .
.I file
が指定された場合、
.I file
で指定された UTS 名前空間に入れる。
.TP
\fB\-i\fR, \fB\-\-ipc\fR[=\fIfile\fR]
.\"O Enter the IPC namespace.  If no file is specified, enter the IPC namespace of
.\"O the target process.
IPC 名前空間に入れる。
.I file
が指定されない場合、対象プロセスの IPC 名前空間に入れる。
.\"O If
.\"O .I file
.\"O is specified, enter the IPC namespace specified by
.\"O .IR file .
.I file
が指定された場合、
.I file
で指定された IPC 名前空間に入れる。
.TP
\fB\-n\fR, \fB\-\-net\fR[=\fIfile\fR]
.\"O Enter the network namespace.  If no file is specified, enter the network
.\"O namespace of the target process.
ネットワーク名前空間に入れる。
.I file
が指定されない場合、対象プロセスのネットワーク名前空間に入れる。
.\"O If
.\"O .I file
.\"O is specified, enter the network namespace specified by
.\"O .IR file .
.I file
が指定された場合、
.I file
で指定されたネットワーク名前空間に入れる。
.TP
\fB\-p\fR, \fB\-\-pid\fR[=\fIfile\fR]
.\"O Enter the PID namespace.  If no file is specified, enter the PID namespace of
.\"O the target process.
PID 名前空間に入れる。
.I file
が指定されない場合、対象プロセスの PID 名前空間に入れる。
.\"O If
.\"O .I file
.\"O is specified, enter the PID namespace specified by
.\"O .IR file .
.I file
が指定された場合、
.I file
で指定された PID 名前空間に入れる。
.TP
\fB\-U\fR, \fB\-\-user\fR[=\fIfile\fR]
.\"O Enter the user namespace.  If no file is specified, enter the user namespace of
.\"O the target process.
ユーザー名前空間に入れる。
.I file
が指定されない場合、対象プロセスのユーザー名前空間に入れる。
.\"O If
.\"O .I file
.\"O is specified, enter the user namespace specified by
.\"O .IR file .
.I file
が指定された場合、
.I file
で指定されたユーザー名前空間に入れる。
.\"O See also the \fB\-\-setuid\fR and \fB\-\-setgid\fR options.
\fB\-\-setuid\fR と \fB\-\-setgid\fR オプションも参照すること。
.TP
\fB\-C\fR, \fB\-\-cgroup\fR[=\fIfile\fR]
.\"O Enter the cgroup namespace.  If no file is specified, enter the cgroup namespace of
.\"O the target process.
cgroup 名前空間に入れる。
.I file
が指定されない場合、対象プロセスの cgroup 名前空間に入れる。
.\"O If
.\"O .I file
.\"O is specified, enter the cgroup namespace specified by
.\"O .IR file .
.I file
が指定された場合、
.I file
で指定された cgroup 名前空間に入れる。
.TP
\fB\-G\fR, \fB\-\-setgid\fR \fIgid\fR
.\"O Set the group ID which will be used in the entered namespace and drop
.\"O supplementary groups.
入った名前空間で使われるグループ ID を設定する。
補助 (supplementary) グループは落とされる。
.\"O .BR nsenter (1)
.\"O always sets GID for user namespaces, the default is 0.
.BR nsenter (1)
は常にユーザー名前空間で GID を設定し、デフォルトは 0 である。
.TP
\fB\-S\fR, \fB\-\-setuid\fR \fIuid\fR
.\"O Set the user ID which will be used in the entered namespace.
入った名前空間で使われるユーザー ID を設定する。
.\"O .BR nsenter (1)
.\"O always sets UID for user namespaces, the default is 0.
.BR nsenter (1)
は常にユーザー名前空間で UID を設定し、デフォルトは 0 である。
.TP
\fB\-\-preserve\-credentials\fR
.\"O Don't modify UID and GID when enter user namespace. The default is to
.\"O drops supplementary groups and sets GID and UID to 0.
ユーザー名前空間に入ったときに、UID と GID を変更しない。
デフォルトでは、補助グループを落とし、GID と UID を 0 にする。
.TP
\fB\-r\fR, \fB\-\-root\fR[=\fIdirectory\fR]
.\"O Set the root directory.  If no directory is specified, set the root directory to
.\"O the root directory of the target process.  If directory is specified, set the
.\"O root directory to the specified directory.
ルートディレクトリを設定する。
ディレクトリが指定されない場合、ルートディレクトリは、
対象プロセスのルートディレクトリに設定される。
ディレクトリが指定された場合、ルートディレクトリは、指定された
ルートディレクトリに設定される。
.TP
\fB\-w\fR, \fB\-\-wd\fR[=\fIdirectory\fR]
.\"O Set the working directory.  If no directory is specified, set the working
.\"O directory to the working directory of the target process.  If directory is
.\"O specified, set the working directory to the specified directory.
ワーキングディレクトリを設定する。
ディレクトリが指定されない場合、ワーキングディレクトリは、
対象プロセスのワーキングディレクトリに設定される。
ディレクトリが指定された場合、ワーキングディレクトリは、指定された
ワーキングディレクトリに設定される。
.TP
\fB\-F\fR, \fB\-\-no\-fork\fR
.\"O Do not fork before exec'ing the specified program.  By default, when entering a
.\"O PID namespace, \fBnsenter\fP calls \fBfork\fP before calling \fBexec\fP so that
.\"O any children will also be in the newly entered PID namespace.
指定されたプログラムを exec する前に、fork しない。
デフォルトでは、PID 名前空間に入る際、
\fBnsenter\fP は \fBexec\fP を呼ぶ前に \fBfork\fP を呼ぶので、
新しく入った PID 名前空間に子プロセスも入る。
.TP
\fB\-Z\fR, \fB\-\-follow\-context\fR
.\"O Set the SELinux security context used for executing a new process according to
.\"O already running process specified by \fB\-\-target\fR PID. (The util-linux has
.\"O to be compiled with SELinux support otherwise the option is unavailable.)
\fB\-\-target\fR PID で指定された既存の実行中プロセスに基づいて、
新しいプロセスを実行するのに使う SELinux セキュリティコンテキストを設定する。
 (util-linux が SELinux をサポートするようにコンパイルされている必要がある。
さもなければ、このオプションは利用できない。)
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
.\"O Display version information and exit.
バージョン情報を表示して、終了する。
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
.\"O Display help text and exit.
ヘルプを表示して、終了する。
.\"O .SH SEE ALSO
.SH 関連項目
.BR clone (2),
.BR setns (2),
.BR namespaces (7)
.\"O .SH AUTHORS
.SH 著者
.UR biederm@xmission.com
Eric Biederman
.UE
.br
.UR kzak@redhat.com
Karel Zak
.UE
.\"O .SH AVAILABILITY
.SH 入手方法
.\"O The nsenter command is part of the util-linux package and is available from
.\"O .UR https://\:www.kernel.org\:/pub\:/linux\:/utils\:/util-linux/
.\"O Linux Kernel Archive
.\"O .UE .
nsenter コマンドは util-linux パッケージの一部であり、
.UR https://\:www.kernel.org\:/pub\:/linux\:/utils\:/util-linux/
Linux Kernel Archive
.UE
から入手できる。
