.\" prlimit.1 --
.\" Copyright 2011 Davidlohr Bueso <dave@gnu.org>
.\" May be distributed under the GNU General Public License
.\"
.\" Japanese Version Copyright (c) 2020 Yuichi SATO
.\"         all rights reserved.
.\" Translated Sun Apr 12 13:59:11 JST 2020
.\"         by Yuichi SATO <ysato444@ybb.ne.jp>
.\"
.TH PRLIMIT 1 "July 2014" "util-linux" "User Commands"
.\"O .SH NAME
.SH 名前
.\"O prlimit \- get and set process resource limits
prlimit \- プロセスのリソース制限を取得または設定する。
.\"O .SH SYNOPSIS
.SH 書式
.BR prlimit " [options]"
.RB [ \-\-\fIresource\fR [ =\fIlimits\fR]
.RB [ \-\-pid\ \fIPID\fR]

.BR prlimit " [options]"
.RB [ \-\-\fIresource\fR [ =\fIlimits\fR]
.IR "command " [ argument ...]

.\"O .SH DESCRIPTION
.SH 説明
.\"O Given a process ID and one or more resources, \fBprlimit\fP tries to retrieve
.\"O and/or modify the limits.
指定したプロセス ID と 1 つ以上のリソースについて、
\fBprlimit\fP はその制限を取得または変更する。

.\"O When \fIcommand\fR is given,
.\"O .B prlimit
.\"O will run this command with the given arguments.
\fIcommand\fR を指定すると、
.B prlimit
は指定した引き数でコマンドを実行する。

.\"O The \fIlimits\fP parameter is composed of a soft and a hard value, separated
.\"O by a colon (:), in order to modify the existing values.  If no \fIlimits\fR are
.\"O given, \fBprlimit\fP will display the current values.  If one of the values
.\"O is not given, then the existing one will be used.  To specify the unlimited or
.\"O infinity limit (RLIM_INFINITY), the -1 or 'unlimited' string can be passed.
\fIlimits\fP 引き数は、コロン (:) で区切られたソフト制限とハード制限から構成され、
既存の値を変更する。
\fIlimits\fR が指定されない場合、\fBprlimit\fP は現在の値を表示する。
値が指定されない場合、既存の値が使われる。
無制限はたは無限の値t (RLIM_INFINITY) を指定するには、
-1 または 'unlimited' 文字列を渡すこと。

.\"O Because of the nature of limits, the soft limit must be lower or equal to the
.\"O high limit (also called the ceiling).  To see all available resource limits,
.\"O refer to the RESOURCE OPTIONS section.
制限の特性により、ソフト制限は (上限とも呼ばれる) ハード制限以下でなければならない。
利用可のな全てのリソース制限を見るには、「リソースオプション」の
セクションを参照すること。

.\"O .IP "\fIsoft\fP:\fIhard\fP    Specify both limits."
.\"O .IP "\fIsoft\fP:        Specify only the soft limit."
.\"O .IP ":\fIhard\fP        Specify only the hard limit."
.\"O .IP "\fIvalue\fP        Specify both limits to the same value."
.IP "\fIsoft\fP:\fIhard\fP    両方の制限を指定する。"
.IP "\fIsoft\fP:        ソフト制限のみを指定する。"
.IP ":\fIhard\fP        ハード制限のみを指定する。"
.IP "\fIvalue\fP        両方の制限を同じ値に指定する。"

.\"O .SH GENERAL OPTIONS
.SH 一般的なオプション
.IP "\fB\-h, \-\-help\fP"
.\"O Display help text and exit.
ヘルプを表示して、終了する。
.IP "\fB\-\-noheadings\fP"
.\"O Do not print a header line.
ヘッダ行を表示しない。
.IP "\fB\-o, \-\-output \fIlist\fP"
.\"O Define the output columns to use.  If no output arrangement is specified,
.\"O then a default set is used.
使用する出力カラムを定義する。
出力カラムが指定されない場合、デフォルトのセットが使われる。
.\"O Use \fB\-\-help\fP to get a list of all supported columns.
サポートされるカラムのリストを取得するには、\fB\-\-help\fP を使うこと。
.IP "\fB\-p, \-\-pid\fP"
.\"O Specify the process id; if none is given, the running process will be used.
プロセス ID を指定する。何も指定しない場合は、実行中のプロセスが使われる。
.IP "\fB\-\-raw\fP"
.\"O Use the raw output format.
生の出力形式を使う。
.IP "\fB\-\-verbose\fP"
.\"O Verbose mode.
詳細なモード。
.IP "\fB\-V, \-\-version\fP"
.\"O Display version information and exit.
バージョン情報を表示して、終了する。

.\"O .SH RESOURCE OPTIONS
.SH リソースオプション
.IP "\fB\-c, \-\-core\fP[=\fIlimits\fR]"
.\"O Maximum size of a core file.
コアファイルの最大サイズ。
.IP "\fB\-d, \-\-data\fP[=\fIlimits\fR]"
.\"O Maximum data size.
データの最大サイズ。
.IP "\fB\-e, \-\-nice\fP[=\fIlimits\fR]"
.\"O Maximum nice priority allowed to raise.
上げることのできる nice 優先度の最大値。
.IP "\fB\-f, \-\-fsize\fP[=\fIlimits\fR]"
.\"O Maximum file size.
ファイルの最大サイズ。
.IP "\fB\-i, \-\-sigpending\fP[=\fIlimits\fR]"
.\"O Maximum number of pending signals.
ペンディングされるシグナルの最大数。
.IP "\fB\-l, \-\-memlock\fP[=\fIlimits\fR]"
.\"O Maximum locked-in-memory address space.
アドレス空間のメモリロック可能サイズの最大値。
.IP "\fB\-m, \-\-rss\fP[=\fIlimits\fR]"
.\"O Maximum Resident Set Size (RSS).
Resident Set Size (RSS) の最大値。
.IP "\fB\-n, \-\-nofile\fP[=\fIlimits\fR]"
.\"O Maximum number of open files.
open できるファイルの最大数。
.IP "\fB\-q, \-\-msgqueue\fP[=\fIlimits\fR]"
.\"O Maximum number of bytes in POSIX message queues.
POSIX メッセージキューの最大バイト数。
.IP "\fB\-r, \-\-rtprio\fP[=\fIlimits\fR]"
.\"O Maximum real-time priority.
リアルタイム優先度の最大値。
.IP "\fB\-s, \-\-stack\fP[=\fIlimits\fR]"
.\"O Maximum size of the stack.
スタックの最大サイズ。
.IP "\fB\-t, \-\-cpu\fP[=\fIlimits\fR]"
.\"O CPU time, in seconds.
CPU 時間 (秒)。
.IP "\fB\-u, \-\-nproc\fP[=\fIlimits\fR]"
.\"O Maximum number of processes.
プロセスの最大数。
.IP "\fB\-v, \-\-as\fP[=\fIlimits\fR]"
.\"O Address space limit.
アドレス空間の最大値。
.IP "\fB\-x, \-\-locks\fP[=\fIlimits\fR]"
.\"O Maximum number of file locks held.
保持できるファイルロックの最大数。
.IP "\fB\-y, \-\-rttime\fP[=\fIlimits\fR]"
.\"O Timeout for real-time tasks.
リアルタイムタスクのタイムアウト。

.\"O .SH EXAMPLES
.SH 例
.IP "\fBprlimit \-\-pid 13134\fP"
.\"O Display limit values for all current resources.
現在の全てのリソースの制限値を表示する。
.IP "\fBprlimit \-\-pid 13134 \--rss --nofile=1024:4095\fP"
.\"O Display the limits of the RSS, and set the soft and hard limits for the number
.\"O of open files to 1024 and 4095, respectively.
RSS の制限を表示し、open するファイルのソフト制限とハード制限を
それぞれ 1024 と 4095 にする。
.IP "\fBprlimit \-\-pid 13134 --nproc=512:\fP"
.\"O Modify only the soft limit for the number of processes.
プロセスのソフト制限のみを変更する。
.IP "\fBprlimit \-\-pid $$ --nproc=unlimited\fP"
.\"O Set for the current process both the soft and ceiling values for the number of
.\"O processes to unlimited.
カレントプロセスのソフト制限と上限をともに無制限にする。
.IP "\fBprlimit --cpu=10 sort -u hugefile\fP"
.\"O Set both the soft and hard CPU time limit to ten seconds and run 'sort'.
CPU 時間のソフト制限とハード制限をともに 10 秒に設定し、'sort' を実行する。

.\"O .SH "SEE ALSO"
.SH 関連項目
.BR ulimit (1),
.BR prlimit (2)

.\"O .SH NOTES
.SH 注意
.\"O The prlimit system call is supported since Linux 2.6.36, older kernels will
.\"O break this program.
prlimit システムコールは Linux 2.6.36 以降でサポートされており、
古いカーネルではこのプログラムは失敗する。

.\"O .SH AUTHORS
.SH 著者
.nf
.\"O Davidlohr Bueso <dave@gnu.org> - In memory of Dennis M. Ritchie.
Davidlohr Bueso <dave@gnu.org> - Dennis M. Ritchie を偲んで。
.fi
.\"O .SH AVAILABILITY
.SH 入手方法
.\"O The prlimit command is part of the util-linux package and is available from
.\"O https://www.kernel.org/pub/linux/utils/util-linux/.
prlimit コマンドは util-linux パッケージの一部である、
https://www.kernel.org/pub/linux/utils/util-linux/
から入手できる。
