.\" Copyright (c) 1983, 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)renice.8	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/9/93
.\"
.\" Japanese Version Copyright (c) 2020 Yuichi SATO
.\"         all rights reserved.
.\" Translated Sun Apr 12 15:14:17 JST 2020
.\"         by Yuichi SATO <ysato444@ybb.ne.jp>
.\"
.TH RENICE "1" "July 2014" "util-linux" "User Commands"
.\"O .SH NAME
.SH 名前
.\"O renice \- alter priority of running processes
renice \- 実行中のプロセスの優先度を変更する
.\"O .SH SYNOPSIS
.SH 書式
.B renice
.RB [ \-n ]
.I priority
.RB [ \-g | \-p | \-u ]
.IR identifier ...
.\"O .SH DESCRIPTION
.SH 説明
.\"O .B renice
.\"O alters the scheduling priority of one or more running processes.  The
.\"O first argument is the \fIpriority\fR value to be used.
.B renice
は 1 つ以上の実行中プロセスのスケジューリング優先度を変更する。
1 つ目の引き数は使用する \fIpriority\fR 値である。
.\"O The other arguments are interpreted as process IDs (by default),
.\"O process group IDs, user IDs, or user names.
他の引き数は、プロセス ID (デフォルト)、プロセスグループ ID、
ユーザー ID、ユーザー名として解釈される。
.\"O .BR renice 'ing
.\"O a process group causes all processes in the process group to have their
.\"O scheduling priority altered.
プロセスグループを
.B renice
すると、プロセスグループに所属する全てのプロセスのスケジューリング
優先度が変更される。
ユーザーを
.B renice
すると、ユーザーが所有する全てのプロセスのスケジューリング優先度が
変更される。
.PP
.\"O .SH OPTIONS
.SH オプション
.TP
.BR \-n , " \-\-priority " \fIpriority\fR
.\"O Specify the scheduling
.\"O .I priority
.\"O to be used for the process, process group, or user.  Use of the option
.\"O .BR \-n " or " \-\-priority
.\"O is optional, but when used it must be the first argument.
プロセス、プロセスグループ、ユーザーに使用するスケジューリング
優先度
.I priority
を指定する。
.BR \-n " または " \-\-priority
はオプションであるが、使用する場合は最初の引き数にする必要がある。
.TP
.\"O .BR \-g , " \-\-pgrp
.BR \-g , " \-\-pgrp"
.\"O Interpret the succeeding arguments as process group IDs.
その後に続く引き数をプロセスグループ ID として解釈する。
.TP
.\"O .BR \-p , " \-\-pid
.BR \-p , " \-\-pid"
.\"O Interpret the succeeding arguments as process IDs
.\"O (the default).
その後に続く引き数をプロセス ID として解釈する (デフォルト)。
.TP
.\"O .BR \-u , " \-\-user
.BR \-u , " \-\-user"
.\"O Interpret the succeeding arguments as usernames or UIDs.
その後に続く引き数をユーザ名または UID として解釈する。
.TP
.BR \-V , " \-\-version"
.\"O Display version information and exit.
バージョン情報を表示して、終了する。
.TP
.BR \-h , " \-\-help"
.\"O Display help text and exit.
ヘルプを表示して、終了する。
.\"O .SH EXAMPLES
.SH 例
.\"O The following command would change the priority of the processes with
.\"O PIDs 987 and 32, plus all processes owned by the users daemon and root:
以下のコマンドは、PID が 987 と 32 のプロセスと、ユーザー daemon と root が
所有する全てのプロセスの優先度を変更する:
.TP
.B "       renice" +1 987 -u daemon root -p 32
.\"O .SH NOTES
.SH 注意
.\"O Users other than the superuser may only alter the priority of processes they
.\"O own.  Furthermore, an unprivileged user can only
.\"O .I increase
.\"O the ``nice value'' (i.e., choose a lower priority)
.\"O and such changes are irreversible unless (since Linux 2.6.12)
.\"O the user has a suitable ``nice'' resource limit (see
.\"O .BR ulimit (1)
.\"O and
.\"O .BR getrlimit (2)).
スーパーユーザー以外のユーザーは、自身が所有するプロセスの優先度しか
変更できない。
非特権ユーザは ``nice 値'' を
.I 増加
させることかできない (つまり、低い優先度を選ぶことしかできない)。
また、(Linux 2.6.12 以降では) この変更は
適切な ``nice'' リソース制限が設定されていない限り、元に戻すことはできない
.RB ( ulimit (1)
と
.BR getrlimit (2)
を参照すること)。

.\"O The superuser may alter the priority of any process and set the priority to any
.\"O value in the range \-20 to 19.
.\"O Useful priorities are: 19 (the affected processes will run only when nothing
.\"O else in the system wants to), 0 (the ``base'' scheduling priority), anything
.\"O negative (to make things go very fast).
スーパーユーザーは、任意のプロセスの優先度を変更可能で、
優先度を \-20 から 19 の範囲に設定できる。
よく使われる値は以下の通り:
19 (この値を設定したプロセスは、システムが何もすることがないときにのみ
実行される)、0 (``基本の'' スケジューリング優先度)、負の値 (速く処理させる)。
.\"O .SH FILES
.SH ファイル
.TP
.I /etc/passwd
.\"O to map user names to user IDs
ユーザー名とユーザ ID をマッピングする。
.\"O .SH SEE ALSO
.SH 関連項目
.BR nice (1),
.BR getpriority (2),
.BR setpriority (2),
.BR credentials (7),
.BR sched (7)
.\"O .SH HISTORY
.SH 履歴
.\"O The
.\"O .B renice
.\"O command appeared in 4.0BSD.
.B renice
コマンドは 4.0BSD で登場した。
.\"O .SH AVAILABILITY
.SH 入手方法
.\"O The renice command is part of the util-linux package and is available from
.\"O .UR https://\:www.kernel.org\:/pub\:/linux\:/utils\:/util-linux/
.\"O Linux Kernel Archive
.\"O .UE .
renice コマンドは util-linux パッケージの一部であり、
.UR https://\:www.kernel.org\:/pub\:/linux\:/utils\:/util-linux/
Linux Kernel Archive
.UE
から入手できる。
