.\" Copyright (c) 1980, 1990 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	@(#)script.1	6.5 (Berkeley) 7/27/91
.\"
.\" Japanese Version Copyright (c) 1999 NAKANO Takeo all rights reserved.
.\" Translated Thu 14 Oct 1999 by NAKANO Takeo <nakano@apm.seikei.ac.jp>
.\" Updated Tue Jan  9 18:33:39 JST 2001
.\"      by Yuichi SATO <sato@complex.eng.hokudai.ac.jp>
.\" Updated Sat Nov 17 15:27:01 JST 2001
.\"      by Yuichi SATO <ysato@h4.dion.ne.jp>
.\" Updated & Modified Sat May  1 17:38:44 JST 2004
.\"      by Yuichi SATO <ysato444@yahoo.co.jp>
.\" Updated & Modified Wed Jul 31 00:08:21 JST 2019
.\"      by Yuichi SATO <ysato444@ybb.ne.jp>
.\"
.\" WORD:	typescript	写し
.\"
.TH SCRIPT "1" "June 2014" "util-linux" "User Commands"
.\"O .SH NAME
.SH 名前
.\"O script \- make typescript of terminal session
script \- 端末セッションの写し (typescript) を作成する。
.\"O .SH SYNOPSIS
.SH 書式
.B script
[options]
.RI [ file ]
.\"O .SH DESCRIPTION
.SH 説明
.\"O .B script
.\"O makes a typescript of everything displayed on your terminal.  It is useful for
.\"O students who need a hardcopy record of an interactive session as proof of an
.\"O assignment, as the typescript file can be printed out later with
.\"O .BR lpr (1).
.B script
は端末に表示されたものすべての写し (typescript) を作成する。
これは宿題を出された学生が、インタラクティブなセッションの
ハードコピーを必要とする場合などに便利だろう。
記録された typescript ファイルを、後で
.BR lpr (1)
などを使って印刷すれば良い。
.PP
.\"O If the argument
.\"O .I file
.\"O is given,
.\"O .B script
.\"O saves the dialogue in this
.\"O .IR file .
引き数
.I file
が指定されると、
.B script
はすべての記録を
.I file
に保存する。
.\"O If no filename is given, the dialogue is saved in the file
.\"O .BR typescript .
ファイル名が与えられなければ、写しは
.B typescript
というファイルに保存される。
.\"O .SH OPTIONS
.SH オプション
.\"O Below, the \fIsize\fR argument may be followed by the multiplicative
.\"O suffixes KiB (=1024), MiB (=1024*1024), and so on for GiB, TiB, PiB, EiB, ZiB and YiB
.\"O (the "iB" is optional, e.g. "K" has the same meaning as "KiB"), or the suffixes
.\"O KB (=1000), MB (=1000*1000), and so on for GB, TB, PB, EB, ZB and YB.
\fIsize\fR 引数の後ろに倍数の拡張子
KiB (=1024), MiB (=1024*1024), GiB, TiB, PiB, EiB, ZiB, YiB を
付けることができる
("iB" はオプションであり、つまり "K" は "KiB" と同じ意味である)。
また、拡張子
KB (=1000), MB (=1000*1000), GB, TB, PB, EB, ZB, YB
を付けることもできる。
.TP
\fB\-a\fR, \fB\-\-append\fR
.\"O Append the output to
.\"O .I file
.\"O or to
.\"O .BR typescript ,
.\"O retaining the prior contents.
出力を
.I file
または
.B typescript
に追加 (append) する。
以前の内容が保存される。
.TP
\fB\-c\fR, \fB\-\-command\fR \fIcommand\fR
.\"O Run the
.\"O .I command
.\"O rather than an interactive shell.  This makes it easy for a script to capture
.\"O the output of a program that behaves differently when its stdout is not a
.\"O tty.
インタラクティブなシェルではなく、
.I command
を実行する。
標準出力が端末 (tty) でないと動作が変わってしまうプログラムの出力を、
script が簡単に記録できるようにする。
.TP
\fB\-e\fR, \fB\-\-return\fR
.\"O Return the exit code of the child process.  Uses the same format as bash
.\"O termination on signal termination exit code is 128+n.  The exit code of
.\"O the child process is always stored in type script file too.
子プロセスの終了コードを返す。
bash でのシグナル終了と同じ形式で、終了コードは 128+n になる。
子プロセスの終了コードは、常に typescript ファイルに格納される。
.TP
\fB\-f\fR, \fB\-\-flush\fR
.\"O Flush output after each write.  This is nice for telecooperation: one person
.\"O does `mkfifo foo; script -f foo', and another can supervise real-time what is
.\"O being done using `cat foo'.
書き込みをするごとに出力をフラッシュする。
これは遠隔で共同作業をする場合に良い。
一方の人が `mkfifo foo; script -f foo' を実行した場合、
もう一方の人は、`cat foo' を使うことにより、
何が実行されているかをリアルタイムで監視することができる。
.TP
\fB\-\-force\fR
.\"O Allow the default output destination, i.e. the typescript file, to be a hard
.\"O or symbolic link.  The command will follow a symbolic link.
typescrpt ファイルがハードリンクやシンボリックリンクであっても、
デフォルトの出力先を許可する。
コマンドはシンボリックリンクを辿る。
.TP
\fB\-o\fR, \fB\-\-output-limit\fR \fIsize\fR
.\"O Limit the size of the typescript and timing files to
.\"O .I size
.\"O and stop the child process after this size is exceeded.  The calculated
.\"O file size does not include the start and done messages that the
.\"O .B script
.\"O command prepends and appends to the child process output.
.\"O Due to buffering, the resulting output file might be larger than the specified value.
typescript のサイズを制限し、ファイルを
.I size
に切り詰めて、サイズを超過した場合に子プロセスを停止する。
計算されるファイルサイズには、
.B script
コマンドが子プロセスの出力の前に付ける開始メッセージと、
後に付ける終了メッセージが含まれない。
バッファリングのために、結果の出力ファイルは指定した値より
大きくなる可能性がある。
.TP
\fB\-q\fR, \fB\-\-quiet\fR
.\"O Be quiet (do not write start and done messages to standard output).
寡黙な動作にする (開始と終了メッセージを標準出力に書き出さない)。
.TP
\fB\-t\fR[\fIfile\fR], \fB\-\-timing\fR[=\fIfile\fR]
.\"O Output timing data to standard error, or to
.\"O .I file
.\"O when given.  This data contains two fields, separated by a space.  The first
.\"O field indicates how much time elapsed since the previous output.  The second
.\"O field indicates how many characters were output this time.  This information
.\"O can be used to replay typescripts with realistic typing and output delays.
タイミングデータを標準エラーに出力する。
.I file
が指定された場合は、ファイルに出力する。
このデータはスペースで区切られた 2 つのフィールドからなる。
1 番目のフィールドは、前の出力からの経過時間を表す。
2 番目のフィールドは、そのときに何文字出力されたかを表す。
この情報は、タイピングと出力の実際の遅延時間で、
写しを再現するために使われる。
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
.\"O Display version information and exit.
バージョン情報を表示して、終了する。
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
.\"O Display help text and exit.
ヘルプを表示して、終了する。
.\"O .SH NOTES
.SH 注意
.\"O The script ends when the forked shell exits (a
.\"O .I control-D
.\"O for the Bourne shell
.\"O .RB ( sh (1)),
.\"O and
.\"O .IR exit ,
.\"O .I logout
.\"O or
.\"O .I control-d
.\"O (if
.\"O .I ignoreeof
.\"O is not set) for the
.\"O C-shell,
.\"O .BR csh (1)).
script は fork されたシェルが終了したときに記録を終える
(Bourne シェル
.RB ( sh (1))
を終わるには
.I control-D
を入力する。
C シェル
.RB ( csh (1))
なら
.IR exit ,
.IR logout ,
.I control-d
のいずれかを入力する。
ただし
.I control-d
が有効なのは
.I ignoreeof
がセットされていない場合である)。
.PP
.\"O Certain interactive commands, such as
.\"O .BR vi (1),
.\"O create garbage in the typescript file.
.\"O .B script
.\"O works best with commands that do not manipulate the screen, the results are
.\"O meant to emulate a hardcopy terminal.
.BR vi (1)
のようなインタラクティブなコマンドでは、
typescript ファイルにゴミができることがある。
.B script
は画面を操作しないコマンドを扱ったときに最もうまく動作する。
その場合の結果は、ハードコピー端末をエミュレートしたものとなる。
.PP
.\"O It is not recommended to run
.\"O .B script
.\"O in non-interactive shells.  The inner shell of
.\"O .B script
.\"O is always interactive, and this could lead to unexpected results.  If you use
.\"O .B script
.\"O in the shell initialization file, you have to avoid entering an infinite
.\"O loop.  You can use for example the \fB\%.profile\fR file, which is read
.\"O by login shells only:
.B script
を対話的でないシェルで実行するのは推奨されない。
.B script
の内部シェルは、常に対話的であり、シェルが対話的でない場合、
予期しない結果になる可能性がある。
.B script
をシェルの初期化ファイルで使う場合、無限ループに入るのを
避けなければならない。
例として、以下の \fB\%.profile\fR ファイルを使うことができる。
これは、ログインシェルからのみ読み込まれる。
.RS
.RE
.sp
.na
.RS
.nf
if test -t 0 ; then
    script
    exit
fi
.fi
.RE
.ad
.PP
.\"O You should also avoid use of script in command pipes, as
.\"O .B script
.\"O can read more input than you would expect.
.B script
はあなたが思うより多くの入力を読み込む可能性があるので、
コマンドのパイプから
.B script
を使うことも避けるべきである。
.PP
.\"O .SH ENVIRONMENT
.SH 環境変数
.\"O The following environment variable is utilized by
.\"O .BR script :
.B script
は以下の環境変数を用いる。
.TP
.B SHELL
.\"O If the variable
.\"O .B SHELL
.\"O exists, the shell forked by
.\"O .B script
.\"O will be that shell.  If
.\"O .B SHELL
.\"O is not set, the Bourne shell is assumed.  (Most shells set this variable
.\"O automatically).
環境変数
.B SHELL
が定義されていると、
.B script
が fork するシェルはそれになる。
.B SHELL
が定義されていなければ、
Bourne シェルが用いられる。
(ほとんどのシェルはこの環境変数を自動的にセットする。)
.\"O .SH SEE ALSO
.SH 関連項目
.BR csh (1)
.\"O (for the
.\"O .I history
.\"O mechanism),
.RI ( history
メカニズムに関する部分),
.BR scriptreplay (1)
.\"O .SH HISTORY
.SH 履歴
.\"O The
.\"O .B script
.\"O command appeared in 3.0BSD.
.B script
コマンドは 3.0BSD で登場した。
.\"O .SH BUGS
.SH バグ
.\"O .B script
.\"O places
.\"O .I everything
.\"O in the log file, including linefeeds and backspaces.  This is not what the
.\"O naive user expects.
.B script
はラインフィードやバックスペースも含め、
.I すべて
をログファイルに書きこむ。
これは普通のユーザが期待するものとは異なるかもしれない。
.PP
.\"O .B script
.\"O is primarily designed for interactive terminal sessions.  When stdin
.\"O is not a terminal (for example: \fBecho foo | script\fR), then the session
.\"O can hang, because the interactive shell within the script session misses EOF and
.\"O .B script
.\"O has no clue when to close the session.  See the \fBNOTES\fR section for more information.
.B script
は元々対話的な端末のセッションのために設計されている。
標準入力が端末でない場合 (例えば、\fBecho foo | script\fR)、
セッションがハングする可能性がある。
これは、script セッション内の対話シェルが EOF を見つけられず、
.B script
がセッションをクローズする手がかりがないためである。
より詳細な情報は「\fB注意\fR」のセクションを参照すること。
.\"O .SH AVAILABILITY
.SH 入手方法
.\"O The script command is part of the util-linux package and is available from
.\"O .UR https://\:www.kernel.org\:/pub\:/linux\:/utils\:/util-linux/
.\"O Linux Kernel Archive
.\"O .UE .
script コマンドは、util-linux パッケージの一部であり、
.UR https://\:www.kernel.org\:/pub\:/linux\:/utils\:/util-linux/
Linux Kernel Archive
.UE
から入手できる。
