.\" Rick Sladkey <jrs@world.std.com>
.\" In the public domain.
.\"
.\" Japanese Version Copyright (c) 2020 Yuichi SATO
.\"         all rights reserved.
.\" Translated Mon Apr 13 22:06:49 JST 2020
.\"         by Yuichi SATO <ysato444@ybb.ne.jp>
.\"
.TH SETSID 1 "July 2014" "util-linux" "User Commands"
.\"O .SH NAME
.SH 名前
.\"O setsid \- run a program in a new session
setsid \- 新しいセッションでプログラムを実行する。
.\"O .SH SYNOPSIS
.SH 書式
.B setsid
[options]
.I program
.RI [ arguments ]
.\"O .SH DESCRIPTION
.SH 説明
.\"O .B setsid
.\"O runs a program in a new session. The command calls
.\"O .BR fork (2)
.\"O if already a process group leader.  Otherwise, it executes a program in the
.\"O current process.  This default behavior is possible to override by
.\"O the \fB\-\-fork\fR option.
.B setsid
は、新しいセッションでプログラムを実行する。
このコマンドは、プロセスが既にグループリーダーである場合、
.BR fork (2)
を呼ぶ。
そうでない場合、プログラムをカレントプロセスの中で実行する。
デフォルトの挙動は、\fB\-\-fork\fR オプションで上書きできる。
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-c , " \-\-ctty"
.\"O Set the controlling terminal to the current one.
制御端末を現在の端末に設定する。
.TP
.BR \-f , " \-\-fork"
.\"O Always create a new process.
常に新しいプロセスを作成する。
.TP
.BR \-w , " \-\-wait"
.\"O Wait for the execution of the program to end, and return the exit value of
.\"O this program as the return value of
.\"O .BR setsid .
プログラムの実行終了を待ち、プログラムの返り値を
.B setsid
の返り値として返す。
.TP
.BR \-V , " \-\-version"
.\"O Display version information and exit.
バージョン情報を表示して、終了する。
.TP
.BR \-h , " \-\-help"
.\"O Display help text and exit.
ヘルプを表示して、終了する。
.\"O .SH "SEE ALSO"
.SH 関連項目
.BR setsid (2)
.\"O .SH AUTHOR
.SH 著者
Rick Sladkey <jrs@world.std.com>
.\"O .SH AVAILABILITY
.SH 入手方法
.\"O The setsid command is part of the util-linux package and is available from
.\"O https://www.kernel.org/pub/linux/utils/util-linux/.
setsid コマンドは util-linux パッケージの一部であり、
https://www.kernel.org/pub/linux/utils/util-linux/
から入手できる。
