.\" Copyright 1990 Gordon Irlam (gordoni@cs.ua.oz.au)
.\" Copyright 1992 Rickard E. Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Copyright 2000 Colin Watson (cjw44@cam.ac.uk)
.\" Do not restrict distribution.
.\" May be distributed under the GNU General Public License
.\"
.\" Japanese Version Copyright (c) 2001-2004 Yuichi SATO
.\"         all rights reserved.
.\" Translated Sun Feb 11 00:25:28 JST 2001
.\"         by Yuichi SATO <sato@complex.eng.hokudai.ac.jp>
.\" Updated & Modified Sat May  1 17:54:48 JST 2004
.\"         by Yuchis SATO <ysato444@yahoo.co.jp>
.\" Updated & Modified Wed Jul 31 17:36:41 JST 2019
.\"         by Yuchis SATO <ysato444@ybb.ne.jp>
.\"
.\"WORD:	terminal	端末
.\"WORD:	virtual		仮想
.\"WORD:	extra bright	高輝度
.\"WORD:	half-brigtness	半輝度
.\"WORD:	blink		点滅
.\"WORD:	extra bright	高輝度
.\"WORD:	dim		薄暗色
.\"WORD:	foreground	前景
.\"WORD:	background	背景
.\"WORD:	line-wrapping	行の折り返し
.\"
.TH SETTERM 1 "May 2014" "util-linux" "User Commands"
.\"O .SH NAME
.SH 名前
.\"O setterm \- set terminal attributes
setterm \- 端末の属性を設定する
.\"O .SH SYNOPSIS
.SH 書式
.B setterm
[options]
.\"O .SH DESCRIPTION
.SH 説明
.\"O .B setterm
.\"O writes to standard output a character string that will invoke the specified
.\"O terminal capabilities.  Where possible
.\"O .I terminfo
.\"O is consulted to find the string to use.  Some options however (marked "virtual
.\"O consoles only" below) do not correspond to a
.\"O .BR terminfo (5)
.\"O capability.  In this case, if the terminal type is "con" or "linux" the string
.\"O that invokes the specified capabilities on the PC Minix virtual console driver
.\"O is output.  Options that are not implemented by the terminal are ignored.
.B setterm
は指定した端末の機能を呼び出す文字列を標準出力に書き出す。
このとき、使用する文字列を見付けるために
.I terminfo
が参照される。
しかし、(以下で「仮想コンソールのみ」とマークされた)
いくつかのオプションは、
.BR terminfo (5)
の機能に対応しない。
この際、端末タイプが "con" または "linux" であると、
指定された機能を PC Minix の仮想コンソールドライバ上で
呼び出すための文字列が出力される。
端末で実装されていないオプションは無視される。
.\"O .SH OPTIONS
.SH オプション
.\"O For boolean options
.\"O .RB ( on " or " off ),
.\"O the default is
.\"O .BR on .
ブール値のオプション
.RB ( on " または " off )
では、
デフォルトは
.B on
である。
.P
.\"O Below, an
.\"O .I 8-color
.\"O can be
.\"O .BR black ,
.\"O .BR red ,
.\"O .BR green ,
.\"O .BR yellow ,
.\"O .BR blue ,
.\"O .BR magenta ,
.\"O .BR cyan ,
.\"O or
.\"O .BR white .
.BR black ,
.BR red ,
.BR green ,
.BR yellow ,
.BR blue ,
.BR magenta ,
.BR cyan ,
.B white
を以下では
.I 8-color
とする。
.P
.\"O A
.\"O .I 16-color
.\"O can be an
.\"O .IR 8-color ,
.\"O or
.\"O .BR grey ,
.\"O or
.\"O .B bright
.\"O followed
.\"O by
.\"O .BR red ,
.\"O .BR green ,
.\"O .BR yellow ,
.\"O .BR blue ,
.\"O .BR magenta ,
.\"O .BR cyan ,
.\"O or
.\"O .BR white .
.I 8-color
と
.B grey
と、
.B bright
を付けた
.BR red ,
.BR green ,
.BR yellow ,
.BR blue ,
.BR magenta ,
.BR cyan ,
.B white
を
.I 16-color
とする。
.P
.\"O The various color options may be set independently, at least on virtual
.\"O consoles, though the results of setting multiple modes (for example,
.\"O .B \-\-underline
.\"O and
.\"O .BR \-\-half\-bright )
.\"O are hardware-dependent.
様々な色オプションが、少なくとも仮想コンソールでは、独立に設定できる。
しかし、マルチモード (例えば、
.B \-\-underline
や
.BR \-\-half\-bright )
の設定の結果は、ハードウェア依存である。
.TP
.\"O \fB\-\-appcursorkeys\fP [\fBon\fP|\fBoff\fP]  (virtual consoles only)
.\"O Sets Cursor Key Application Mode on or off.  When on, ESC O A, ESC O B, etc.
.\"O will be sent for the cursor keys instead of ESC [ A, ESC [ B, etc.  See the
.\"O .I vi and Cursor-Keys
.\"O section of the
.\"O .I Text-Terminal-HOWTO
.\"O for how this can cause problems for \fBvi\fR users.
\fB\-\-appcursorkeys\fP [\fBon\fP|\fBoff\fP]  (仮想コンソールのみ)
カーソルキーアプリケーションモードを on または off に設定する。
on の場合、ESC [ A, ESC [ B などではなく、
ESC O A, ESC O B などがカーソルキーとして送信される。
\fBvi\fR ユーザーに対してこれがどのような問題を引き起こすかについては、
.I Text-Terminal-HOWTO
の
.I "vi とカーソルキー"
のセクションを参照すること。
.TP
\fB\-\-append\fP [\fIconsole_number\fP]
.\"O Like
.\"O .BR \-\-dump ,
.\"O but appends to the snapshot file instead of overwriting it.  Only works if no
.\"O .B \-\-dump
.\"O options are given.
.B \-\-dump
と似ているが、スナップショットファイルを上書きせずに追加する。
.B \-\-dump
オプションが指定されていない場合にのみ機能する。
.TP
\fB\-\-background\fP \fI8-color\fP|\fBdefault\fP
.\"O Sets the background text color.
テキストの背景色を設定する。
.TP
.\"O \fB\-\-blank\fP [\fB0-60\fP|\fBforce\fP|\fBpoke\fP]  (virtual consoles only)
.\"O Sets the interval of inactivity, in minutes, after which the screen will be
.\"O automatically blanked (using APM if available).  Without an argument, it gets
.\"O the blank status (returns which vt was blanked, or zero for an unblanked vt).
\fB\-\-blank\fP [\fB0-60\fP|\fBforce\fP|\fBpoke\fP]  (仮想コンソールのみ)
(APM が使用できる場合に) スクリーンが自動的に消灯されるまでの
無活動時間を分単位で指定する。
引き数が指定されない場合、消灯状態を返す
(仮想端末の消灯が有効な場合は、その時間を返す。無効の場合は、0 を返す)。
.IP
.\"O The
.\"O .B force
.\"O option keeps the screen blank even if a key is pressed.
.B force
オプションを指定すると、キーを押されててもスクリーンを消灯する。
.IP
.\"O The
.\"O .B poke
.\"O option unblanks the screen.
.B poke
オプションを指定すると、スクリーンの消灯を止める。
.TP
\fB\-\-bfreq\fP [\fInumber\fP]  (virtual consoles only)
.\"O Sets the bell frequency in Hertz.  Without an argument, it defaults to
.\"O .BR 0 .
ベルの周波数をヘルツ (Hz) で指定する。
引き数が指定されない場合、デフォルトは
.B 0
である。
.TP
\fB\-\-blength\fP [\fB0-2000\fP]  (virtual consoles only)
.\"O Sets the bell duration in milliseconds.  Without an argument, it defaults to
.\"O .BR 0 .
ベルの継続時間をミリ秒単位で設定する。
引き数が指定されない場合、デフォルトは
.B 0
である。
.TP
.BR \-\-blink " [" on | off ]
.\"O Turns blink mode on or off.  Except on a virtual console,
.\"O .B \-\-blink off
.\"O turns off all attributes (bold, half-brightness, blink, reverse).
点滅モードを on または off にする。
仮想コンソールの場合は例外であるが、
.B \-\-blink off
により (太字・半輝度・点滅・反転といった)
全ての属性が off にされる。
.TP
.BR \-\-bold " [" on | off ]
.\"O Turns bold (extra bright) mode on or off.  Except on a virtual console,
.\"O .B \-\-bold off
.\"O turns off all attributes (bold, half-brightness, blink, reverse).
太字 (高輝度) モードを on または off にする。
仮想コンソールの場合は例外であるが、
.B \-\-bold off
により (太字・半輝度・点滅・反転といった)
全ての属性が off にされる。
.TP
\fB\-\-clear\fP [\fBall\fP|\fBrest\fP]
.\"O Without an argument or with the argument
.\"O .BR all ,
.\"O the entire screen is cleared and the cursor is set to the home position,
.\"O just like
.\"O .BR clear (1)
.\"O does.  With the argument
.\"O .BR rest ,
.\"O the screen is cleared from the current cursor position to the end.
引き数なし、または引き数
.B all
が指定された場合、
.BR clear (1)
と同じように、スクリーンをクリアしてカーソルをホームポジションに
移動する。
引き数
.B rest
が指定された場合、現在のカーソル位置からスクリーンの最下行までを
クリアする。
.TP
.\"O \fB\-\-clrtabs\fP [\fItab1 tab2 tab3\fP ...]  (virtual consoles only)
.\"O Clears tab stops from the given horizontal cursor positions, in the range
.\"O .BR 1-160 .
.\"O Without arguments, it clears all tab stops.
\fB\-\-clrtabs\fP [\fItab1 tab2 tab3\fP ...]  (仮想コンソールのみ)
指定された水平方向のカーソル位置のタブストップを解除する。
範囲は
.B 1-160
である。
引き数が指定されない場合、全てのタブストップを解除する。
.TP
.BR \-\-cursor " [" on | off ]
.\"O Turns the terminal's cursor on or off.
端末のカーソルを on または off にする。
.TP
\fB\-\-default\fP
.\"O Sets the terminal's rendering options to the default values.
端末のレンダリングオプションをデフォルトの値に設定する。
.TP
\fB\-\-dump\fP [\fIconsole_number\fP]
.\"O Writes a snapshot of the virtual console with the given number
.\"O to the file specified with the
.\"O .B \-\-file
.\"O option, overwriting its contents; the default is
.\"O .IR screen.dump .
.\"O Without an argument, it dumps the current virtual console.  This overrides
.\"O .BR \-\-append .
指定された仮想コンソールのスナップショットを (属性とともに)
.B \-\-file
オプションで指定されたファイルに書き込む。
ファイルの内容は上書きされる。
デフォルトのファイルは
.I screen.dump
である。
引き数が指定されない場合、現在の仮想コンソールをダンプする。
.B \-\-append
より優先される。
.TP
\fB\-\-file\fP \fIfilename\fP
.\"O Sets the snapshot file name for any
.\"O .B \-\-dump
.\"O or
.\"O .B \-\-append
.\"O options on the same command line.  If this option is not present, the default
.\"O is
.\"O .I screen.dump
.\"O in the current directory.  A path name that exceeds the system maximum will be
.\"O truncated, see PATH_MAX from linux/limits.h for the value.
.B \-\-dump
または
.B \-\-append
オプションで使う
スナップショットファイルを同じコマンドライン上で設定する。
このオプションが指定されない場合、
デフォルトはカレントディレクトリの
.I screen.dump
である。
システムの最大値を越えたパス名は、切り詰められる。
linux/limits.h の PATH_MAX の値を参照すること。
.TP
\fB\-\-foreground\fP \fI8-color\fP|\fBdefault\fP
.\"O Sets the foreground text color.
テキストの前景色を設定する。
.TP
.BR \-\-half\-bright " [" on | off ]
.\"O Turns dim (half-brightness) mode on or off.  Except on a virtual console,
.\"O .B \-\-half\-bright off
.\"O turns off all attributes (bold, half-brightness, blink, reverse).
薄暗色 (半輝度) モードを on または off にする。
仮想コンソールの場合は例外であるが、
.B \-\-half\-bright off
により (太字・半輝度・点滅・反転といった)
全ての属性が off にされる。
.TP
\fB\-\-hbcolor\fP \fI16-color\fP
.\"O Sets the color for half-bright characters.
半輝度文字の色を設定する。
.TP
\fB\-\-initialize\fP
.\"O Displays the terminal initialization string, which typically sets the
.\"O terminal's rendering options, and other attributes to the default values.
端末の初期化文字列を表示する。
通常は、端末のレンダリングオプションを設定し、
その他の属性をデフォルト値に設定する。
.TP
.BR \-\-inversescreen " [" on | off ]
.\"O Swaps foreground and background colors for the whole screen.
スクリーン全体で前景色と背景色を入れ換える。
.TP
.BR \-\-linewrap " [" on | off ]
.\"O Makes the terminal continue on a new line when a line is full.
行がいっぱいの場合に、端末に新しい行に継続させるか否かを設定する。
.TP
.\"O .BR \-\-msg " [" on | off "]  (virtual consoles only)"
.\"O Enables or disables the sending of kernel
.\"O .BR printk ()
.\"O messages to the console.
.BR \-\-msg " [" on | off "]  (仮想コンソールのみ)"
カーネル
.BR printk ()
メッセージを
コンソールに送信するか否かを設定する。
.TP
.\"O \fB\-\-msglevel\fP \fB0-8\fP  (virtual consoles only)
.\"O Sets the console logging level for kernel
.\"O .B printk()
.\"O messages.  All messages strictly more important than this will be printed, so a
.\"O logging level of
.\"O .B 0
.\"O has the same effect as
.\"O .B \-\-msg on
.\"O and a logging level of
.\"O .B 8
.\"O will print all kernel messages.
.\"O .BR klogd (8)
.\"O may be a more convenient interface to the logging of kernel messages.
\fB\-\-msglevel\fP \fB0-8\fP  (仮想コンソールのみ)
カーネル
.B printk()
メッセージのログ記録レベルを設定する。
ここで指定された以上の重要度である全てのメッセージが表示される。
よって、ログ記録レベル
.B 0
は
.B \-\-msg on
と同じ効果がある。
また、ログ記録レベル
.B 8
では全てのカーネルメッセージを表示する。
.BR klogd (8)
はカーネルメッセージをログに記録するための
さらに使いやすいインターフェースである。
.TP
\fB\-\-powerdown\fP [\fB0-60\fP]
.\"O Sets the VESA powerdown interval in minutes.  Without an argument, it defaults
.\"O to
.\"O .B 0
.\"O (disable powerdown).  If the console is blanked or the monitor is in suspend
.\"O mode, then the monitor will go into vsync suspend mode or powerdown mode
.\"O respectively after this period of time has elapsed.
VESA パワーダウンまでの時間を分単位で設定する。
引き数が指定されない場合、デフォルトは
.B 0
である (パワーダウンは行われない)。
この時間が経過すると、
コンソールが消灯している場合は垂直同期サスペンドモードになり、
モニタがサスペンドモードの場合はパワーダウンモードになる。
.TP
\fB\-\-powersave\fP \fBoff\fP
.\"O Turns off monitor VESA powersaving features.
モニタの VESA パワーセーブ機能を off にする。
.TP
\fB\-\-powersave\fP \fBon\fP|\fBvsync\fP
.\"O Puts the monitor into VESA vsync suspend mode.
モニタを VESA vsync サスペンドモードにする。
.TP
\fB\-\-powersave\fP \fBpowerdown\fP
.\"O Puts the monitor into VESA powerdown mode.
モニタを VESA パワーダウンモードにする。
.TP
\fB\-\-powersave\fP \fBhsync\fP
.\"O Puts the monitor into VESA hsync suspend mode.
モニタを VESA hsync サスペンドモードにする。
.TP
.\"O \fB\-\-regtabs\fP [\fB1-160\fP]  (virtual consoles only)
.\"O Clears all tab stops, then sets a regular tab stop pattern, with one tab every
.\"O specified number of positions.  Without an argument, it defaults to
.\"O .BR 8 .
\fB\-\-regtabs\fP [\fB1-160\fP]  (仮想コンソールのみ)
全てのタブストップを解除し、通常のタブストップパターンを設定する。
指定した数値の位置ごとにタブが置かれる。
引き数が指定されない場合、デフォルトは
.B 8
である。
.TP
.\"O .BR \-\-repeat " [" on | off "]  (virtual consoles only)"
.\"O Turns keyboard repeat on or off.
.BR \-\-repeat " [" on | off "]  (仮想コンソールのみ)"
キーボードリピートを on または off にする。
.TP
\fB\-\-reset\fP
.\"O Displays the terminal reset string, which typically resets the terminal to
.\"O its power-on state.
端末リセット文字列を表示する。
通常は、端末をパワーオンの状態にリセットする。
.TP
\fB\-\-resize\fP
.\"O Reset terminal size by assessing maximum row and column.  This is useful
.\"O when actual geometry and kernel terminal driver are not in sync.  Most
.\"O notable use case is with serial consoles, that do not use
.\"O .BR ioctl (3)
.\"O but just byte streams and breaks.
最大の行と列を仮定して端末をリセットする。
これは実際の大きさとカーネルの端末ドライバーが同期していない場合に
役立つ。
最も顕著な使用法はシリアルコンソールであり、
.BR ioctl (3)
を使っていないが、バイトストリームとブレークは使っている場合である。
.TP
\fB\-\-reverse\fP [\fBon\fP|\fBoff\fP]
.\"O Turns reverse video mode on or off.  Except on a virtual console,
.\"O .B \-\-reverse off
.\"O turns off all attributes (bold, half-brightness, blink, reverse).
反転モードを on または off にする。
仮想コンソールの場合は例外であるが、
.B \-\-reverse off
により (太字・半輝度・点滅・反転といった)
全ての属性が off にされる。
.TP
.\"O \fB\-\-store\fP  (virtual consoles only)
.\"O Stores the terminal's current rendering options (foreground and background
.\"O colors) as the values to be used at reset-to-default.
\fB\-\-store\fP  (仮想コンソールのみ)
端末の現在のレンダリングオプション (前景色と背景色) を、
デフォルトにリセットする際に使用される値として保存する。
.TP
\fB\-\-tabs\fP [\fItab1 tab2 tab3\fP ...]
.\"O Sets tab stops at the given horizontal cursor positions, in the range
.\"O .BR 1-160 .
.\"O Without arguments, it shows the current tab stop settings.
指定された水平方向のカーソル位置にタブストップを設定する。
範囲は
.B 1-160
である。
引き数が指定されない場合、現在のタブストップの設定を表示する。
.TP
\fB\-\-term\fP \fIterminal_name\fP
.\"O Overrides the TERM environment variable.
環境変数 TERM を上書きする。
.TP
.\"O \fB\-\-ulcolor\fP \fI16-color\fP  (virtual consoles only)
.\"O Sets the color for underlined characters.
\fB\-\-ulcolor\fP \fI16-color\fP  (仮想コンソールのみ)
下線文字の色を設定する。
.TP
.BR \-\-underline " [" on | off ]
.\"O Turns underline mode on or off.
下線モードを on または off にする。
.TP
\fB\-\-version\fP
.\"O Displays version information and exits.
バージョン情報を表示して、終了する。
.TP
\fB\-\-help\fP
.\"O Displays a help text and exits.
ヘルプを表示して、終了する。
.\"O .SH COMPATIBILITY
.SH 互換性
.\"O Since version 2.25
.\"O .B setterm
.\"O has support for long options with two hyphens, for example
.\"O .BR \-\-help ,
.\"O beside the historical long options with a single hyphen, for example
.\"O .BR \-help .
バージョン 2.25 から
.B setterm
は昔からのハイフン 1 つの長いオプション (例えば
.BR \-help )
に加え、ハイフン 2 つの長いオプション (例えば
.BR \-\-help )
をサポートした。
.\"O In scripts it is better to use the backward-compatible single hyphen
.\"O rather than the double hyphen.  Currently there are no plans nor good
.\"O reasons to discontinue single-hyphen compatibility.
スクリプト内では、後方互換のため、ハイフン 2 つよりハイフン 1 つを使う方が良い。
現在のところハイフン 1 つの互換性を止める計画や良い理由はない。
.\"O .SH "SEE ALSO"
.SH 関連項目
.BR stty (1),
.BR tput (1),
.BR tty (4),
.BR terminfo (5)
.\"O .SH BUGS
.SH バグ
.\"O Differences between the Minix and Linux versions are not documented.
Minix 版と Linux 版の違いが、この文書には書かれていない。
.\"O .SH AVAILABILITY
.SH 入手方法
.\"O The setterm command is part of the util-linux package and is available from
.\"O .UR https://\:www.kernel.org\:/pub\:/linux\:/utils\:/util-linux/
.\"O Linux Kernel Archive
.\"O .UE .
setterm コマンドは、util-linux パッケージの一部であり、
.UR https://\:www.kernel.org\:/pub\:/linux\:/utils\:/util-linux/
Linux Kernel Archive
.UE
から入手できる。
