.\" taskset(1) manpage
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2004 Robert Love
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License,
.\" version 2, as published by the Free Software Foundation.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
.\" with this program; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc.,
.\" 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301 USA.
.\"
.\" Japanese Version Copyright (c) 2020 Yuichi SATO
.\"         all rights reserved.
.\" Translated Tue Apr 14 21:04:31 JST 2020
.\"         by Yuichi SATO <ysato444@ybb.ne.jp>
.\"
.TH TASKSET 1 "August 2014" "util-linux" "User Commands"
.\"O .SH NAME
.SH 名前
.\"O taskset \- set or retrieve a process's CPU affinity
taskset \- プロセスの CPU アフィニティ (affinity) を設定また取得する。
.\"O .SH SYNOPSIS
.SH 書式
.B taskset
[options]
.IR mask\ command\  [ argument ...]
.br
.B taskset
[options]
.B \-p
.RI [ mask ]\  pid
.\"O .SH DESCRIPTION
.SH 説明
.PP
.\"O .B taskset
.\"O is used to set or retrieve the CPU affinity of a running process given its
.\"O \fIpid\fR, or to launch a new \fIcommand\fR with a given CPU affinity.
.B taskset
は \fIpid\fR で指定された実行中の CPU アフィニティを設定または取得するために使われる。
また、新しい \fIcommand\fR を指定した CPU アフィニティで起動することもできる。
.\"O CPU affinity is a
.\"O scheduler property that "bonds" a process to a given set of CPUs on the system.
CPU アフィニティは、スケジューラーの設定であり、
プロセスをシステム上の CPU セットと「結びつける」。
.\"O The Linux scheduler will honor the given CPU affinity and the process will not
.\"O run on any other CPUs.  Note that the Linux scheduler also supports natural
.\"O CPU affinity: the scheduler attempts to keep processes on the same CPU as long
.\"O as practical for performance reasons.  Therefore, forcing a specific CPU
.\"O affinity is useful only in certain applications.
Linux スケジューラーは指定された CPU アフィニティを遵守し、他の CPU では実行しない。
Linux スケジューラーは元々の CPU アフィニティもサポートする点にも注意すること。
元々のスケジューラーは、性能上の理由がない限り、プロセスを同じ CPU で実行する。
よって、特定の CPU アフィニティを強制することは、特定のアプリケーションでしか役立たない。
.sp
.\"O The CPU affinity is represented as a bitmask, with the lowest order bit
.\"O corresponding to the first logical CPU and the highest order bit corresponding
.\"O to the last logical CPU.  Not all CPUs may exist on a given system but a mask
.\"O may specify more CPUs than are present.  A retrieved mask will reflect only the
.\"O bits that correspond to CPUs physically on the system.  If an invalid mask is
.\"O given (i.e., one that corresponds to no valid CPUs on the current system) an
.\"O error is returned.  The masks may be specified in hexadecimal (with or without
.\"O a leading "0x"), or as a CPU list with the
.\"O .B \-\-cpu\-list
.\"O option.  For example,
CPU アフィニティはビットマスクで表現され、最下位のビットが最初の論理 CPU に対応し、
最上位のビットが最後の論理 CPU に対応する。
全ての CPU が指定されたシステムで存在するわけではないので、
マスクでは存在する以上の CPU を指定することができる。
取得したマスクは、システム上に物理的に存在する CPU に対応したビットになっている。
不正な (つまり、現在のシステムに対応する有効な CPU がない) マスクが指定された場合、
エラーが返される。
マスクは 16 進数 (先頭に "0x" があってもなくてもよい)、または 
.B \-\-cpu\-list
オプションで CPU のリストで指定できる。
例えば、
.RS 4
.TP 12
.B 0x00000001
.\"O is processor #0,
はプロセッサ #0 である。
.TP
.B 0x00000003
.\"O is processors #0 and #1,
はプロセッサ #0 と #1 である。
.TP
.B 0xFFFFFFFF
.\"O is processors #0 through #31,
はプロセッサ #0 から #31 である。
.TP
.B 32
.\"O is processors #1, #4, and #5,
はプロセッサ #1, #4, #5 である。
.TP
.B \-\-cpu\-list\ 0-2,6
.\"O is processors #0, #1, #2, and #6.
はプロセッサ #0, #1, #2, #6 である。
.TP
.B \-\-cpu\-list\ 0-10:2
.\"O is processors #0, #2, #4, #6, #8 and #10. The suffix ":N" specifies stride in
.\"O the range, for example 0-10:3 is interpreted as 0,3,6,9 list.
はプロセッサ #0, #2, #4, #6, #8, #10 である。
サフィックス ":N" は範囲内でいくつ飛ばすかを指定する。
例えば、0-10:3 は 0,3,6,9 というリストとして解釈される。
.RE
.PP
.\"O When
.\"O .B taskset
.\"O returns, it is guaranteed that the given program has been scheduled to a legal
.\"O CPU.
.B taskset
が返された場合、指定したプログラムが適切な CPU でスケジューリングされていることが
保証されている。
.\"O .SH OPTIONS
.SH オプション
.TP
.BR \-a ,\  \-\-all\-tasks
.\"O Set or retrieve the CPU affinity of all the tasks (threads) for a given PID.
指定した PID の全てのタスク (スレッド) の CPU アフィニティを設定または取得する。
.TP
.BR \-c ,\  \-\-cpu\-list
.\"O Interpret \fImask\fR as numerical list of processors instead of a bitmask.
.\"O Numbers are separated by commas and may include ranges.  For example:
.\"O .BR 0,5,8-11 .
\fImask\fR をビットマスクではなく、プロセッサ番号のリストとして解釈する。
番号はカンマで区切られ、範囲を含めることもできる。
例えば:
.BR 0,5,8-11 .
.TP
.BR \-p ,\  \-\-pid
.\"O Operate on an existing PID and do not launch a new task.
既存の PID について操作を行い、新しいタスクを起動しない。
.TP
.BR \-V ,\  \-\-version
.\"O Display version information and exit.
バージョン情報を表示して、終了する。
.TP
.BR \-h ,\  \-\-help
.\"O Display help text and exit.
ヘルプを表示して、終了する。
.\"O .SH USAGE
.SH 使用法
.TP
.\"O The default behavior is to run a new command with a given affinity mask:
デフォルトの動作は、新しいコマンドを指定したアフィニティマスクで実行する:
.B taskset
.I mask
.IR command\  [ arguments ]
.TP
.\"O You can also retrieve the CPU affinity of an existing task:
既存のタスクの CPU アフィニティを取得することもできる:
.B taskset \-p
.I pid
.TP
.\"O Or set it:
既存のタスクの CPU アフィニティを設定する:
.B taskset \-p
.I mask pid
.\"O .SH PERMISSIONS
.SH 権限
.\"O A user can change the CPU affinity of a process belonging to the same user.
.\"O A user must possess
.\"O .B CAP_SYS_NICE
.\"O to change the CPU affinity of a process belonging to another user.
.\"O A user can retrieve the affinity mask of any process.
ユーザーは同じユーザーが所有するプロセスの CPU アフィニティを変更できる。
他のユーザーが所有するプロセスの CPU アフィニティを変更するには、
.B CAP_SYS_NICE
権限を持たなければならない。
ユーザーは任意のプロセスのアフィニティマスクを取得できる。
.\"O .SH SEE ALSO
.SH 関連項目
.BR chrt (1),
.BR nice (1),
.BR renice (1),
.BR sched_getaffinity (2),
.BR sched_setaffinity (2)
.sp
.\"O See
.\"O .BR sched (7)
.\"O for a description of the Linux scheduling scheme.
Linux のスケジューリングの概要については、
.BR sched (7)
を参照すること。
.\"O .SH AUTHOR
.SH 著者
.\"O Written by Robert M. Love.
Robert M. Love によって書かれた。
.\"O .SH COPYRIGHT
.SH 著作権
Copyright \(co 2004 Robert M. Love.
This is free software; see the source for copying conditions.  There is NO
warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.\"O .SH AVAILABILITY
.SH 入手方法
.\"O The taskset command is part of the util-linux package and is available from
.\"O https://www.kernel.org/pub/linux/utils/util-linux/.
taskset コマンドは util-linux パッケージの一部であり、
https://www.kernel.org/pub/linux/utils/util-linux/
から入手できる。
