.\" Copyright (C) 2010 Michael Krapp
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301 USA
.\"
.\" Japanese Version Copyright (c) 2020 Yuichi SATO
.\"         all rights reserved.
.\" Translated Wed Apr 15 21:22:46 JST 2020
.\"         by Yuichi SATO <ysato444@ybb.ne.jp>
.\"
.TH UTMPDUMP 1 "July 2014" "util-linux" "User Commands"
.\"O .SH NAME
.SH 名前
.\"O utmpdump \- dump UTMP and WTMP files in raw format
utmpdump \-UTMP と WTMP ファイルを生の形式にダンプする。
.\"O .SH SYNOPSIS
.SH 書式
.BR utmpdump " [options]"
.RI [ filename ]
.\"O .SH DESCRIPTION
.SH 説明
.\"O .B utmpdump
.\"O is a simple program to dump UTMP and WTMP files in raw format, so they
.\"O can be examined.
.B utmpdump
は UTMP と WTMP ファイルを生の形式にダンプする単純なプログラムである。
これにより、ファイルを調査できる。
.\"O .B utmpdump
.\"O reads from stdin unless a
.\"O .I filename
.\"O is passed.
.B utmpdump
は
.I filename
が渡されない場合、標準入力を読み込む。
.\"O .SH OPTIONS
.SH オプション
.TP
.BR \-f , " \-\-follow"
.\"O Output appended data as the file grows.
ファイルが書き足された時に、追加されたデータを出力する。
.TP
.BR \-o , " \-\-output " \fIfile
.\"O Write command output to \fIfile\fR instead of standard output.
コマンド出力を標準出力ではなく \fIfile\fR に書き出す。
.TP
.BR \-r , " \-\-reverse"
.\"O Undump, write back edited login information into the utmp or wtmp files.
ダンプの逆を行う。編集したログイン情報を utmp または wtmp ファイルに書き戻す。
.TP
.BR \-V , " \-\-version"
.\"O Display version information and exit.
バージョン情報を表示して、終了する。
.TP
.BR \-h , " \-\-help"
.\"O Display help text and exit.
ヘルプを表示して、終了する。
.\"O .SH NOTES
.SH 注意
.\"O .B utmpdump
.\"O can be useful in cases of corrupted utmp or wtmp entries.  It can dump
.\"O out utmp/wtmp to an ASCII file, which can then be edited to remove
.\"O bogus entries, and reintegrated using:
.B utmpdump
は、 utmp または wtmp のエントリが壊れている場合に役に立つ。
utmp/wtmp ファイルを ASCII ファイルにダンプし、壊れたエントリを削除した後、
以下のようにして再統合を行う:
.PP
.RS
.B utmpdump -r < ascii_file > wtmp
.RE
.PP
.\"O But be warned,
.\"O .B utmpdump
.\"O was written for debugging purposes only.
しかし、
.B utmpdump
はデバッグ目的のみでかかれている点に注意すること。
.\"O .SS File formats
.SS ファイル形式
.PP
.\"O Only the binary version of the
.\"O .BR utmp (5)
.\"O is standardised.  Textual dumps may become incompatible in future.
バイナリバージョンの
.BR utmp (5)
のみが標準化されている。
テキスト形式のダンプは、将来、互換性がなくかもしれない。
.PP
.\"O The version 2.28 was the last one that printed text output using
.\"O .BR ctime (3)
.\"O timestamp format.  Newer dumps use millisecond precision ISO-8601 timestamp
.\"O format in UTC-0 timezone.  Conversion from former timestamp format can be
.\"O made to binary, although attempt to do so can lead the timestamps to drift
.\"O amount of timezone offset.
バージョン 2.28 は、
.BR ctime (3)
タイムスタンプ形式でテキスト出力をする最後のバージョンである。
UTC-0 タイムゾーンのミリ秒の精度の ISO-8601 タイムスタンプ形式では、もはや書き出さない。
以前のタイムスタンプ形式からの変換で、バイナリ形式にできるが、
タイムスタンプがタイムゾーンオフセットの分ずれる。
.\"O .SH BUGS
.SH バグ
.\"O You may
.\"O .B not
.\"O use the
.\"O .B \-r
.\"O option, as the format for the utmp/wtmp files strongly depends on the input
.\"O format.  This tool was
.\"O .B not
.\"O written for normal use, but for debugging only.
utmp/wtmp ファイルは入力形式に強く依存しているので、
.B \-r
オプションは\fB使うべきではない\fR。
このツールは、デバッグ用途のみであり、通常の利用用途には\fB書かれていない\fR。
.\"O .SH AUTHOR
.SH 著者
Michael Krapp
.\"O .SH "SEE ALSO"
.SH 関連項目
.BR last (1),
.BR w (1),
.BR who (1),
.BR utmp (5)
.\"O .SH AVAILABILITY
.SH 入手方法
.\"O The utmpdump command is part of the util-linux package and is available
.\"O from
.\"O .UR https://\:www.kernel.org\:/pub\:/linux\:/utils\:/util-linux/
.\"O Linux Kernel Archive
.\"O .UE .
utmpdump コマンドは util-linux パッケージの一部であり、
.UR https://\:www.kernel.org\:/pub\:/linux\:/utils\:/util-linux/
Linux Kernel Archive
.UE
から入手できる。
