.\" Copyright (c) 2017 Sami Kerola
.\" The 3-Clause BSD License
.\"
.\" Japanese Version Copyright (c) 2020 Yuichi SATO
.\"         all rights reserved.
.\" Translated Wed Apr 15 23:49:31 JST 2020
.\"         by Yuichi SATO <ysato444@ybb.ne.jp>
.\"
.TH UUIDPARSE "1" "2017-06-18" "util-linux" "User Commands"
.\"O .SH NAME
.SH 名前
.\"O uuidparse \- a utility to parse unique identifiers
uuidparse \- universal unique identifiers (UUID) を解析するユーティリティ
.\"O .SH SYNOPSIS
.SH 書式
.B uuidparse
[options]
.I uuid
.\"O .SH DESCRIPTION
.SH 説明
.\"O This command will parse unique identifier inputs from either command line
.\"O arguments or standard input.  The inputs are white-space separated.
このコマンドは、コマンドライン引き数または標準入力で与えられた
universal unique identifiers (UUID) を解析する。
入力は空白で区切られる。
.\"O .SH OUTPUT
.SH 出力
.\"O .SS Variants
.SS 変数
.nr WI \n(.lu-\n(.iu-\w'Microsoft'u-3n
.TS
tab(:);
l lw(\n(WIu).
NCS:T{
.\"O Network Computing System identifier.  These were the original UUIDs.
Network Computing System 識別子。これが元々の UUID である。
T}
DCE:T{
.\"O The Open Software Foundation's (OSF) Distributed Computing Environment UUIDs.
The Open Software Foundation (OSF) の Distributed Computing Environment UUID。
T}
Microsoft:T{
.\"O Microsoft Windows platform globally unique identifier (GUID).
Microsoft Windows プラットフォームの globally unique identifier (GUID)。
T}
other:T{
.\"O Unknown variant.  Usually invalid input data.
不明な変数。通常は不正な入力データ。
T}
.TE
.\"O .SS Types
.SS タイプ
.TS
tab(:);
l l.
.\"O nil:Special type for zero in type file.
nil:タイプファイルにおける 0 を表す特別なタイプ。
.\"O time-based:The DCE time based.
time-based:DCE の時刻ベースの UUID。
.\"O DCE:The DCE time and MAC Address.
DCE:DCE の時刻と MAC アドレスベースの UUID。
.\"O name-based:RFC 4122 md5sum hash.
name-based:RFC 4122 の md5sum ハッシュ。
.\"O random:RFC 4122 random.
random:RFC 4122 の乱数ベースの UUID。
.\"O sha1-based:RFC 4122 sha-1 hash.
sha1-based:RFC 4122 の sha-1 ハッシュ。
.\"O unknown:Unknown type.  Usually invalid input data.
unknown:不明なタイプ。通常は不正な入力データ。
.TE
.\"O .SH OPTIONS
.SH オプション
.TP
\fB\-J\fR, \fB\-\-json\fR
.\"O Use JSON output format.
JSON 出力形式を使う。
.TP
\fB\-n\fR, \fB\-\-noheadings\fR
.\"O Do not print a header line.
ヘッダ行を表示しない。
.TP
\fB\-o\fR, \fB\-\-output\fR
.\"O Specify which output columns to print.  Use \-\-help to get a list of all
.\"O supported columns.
どの出力カラムを表示するかを指定する。
サポートされる全てのカラムのリストを取得するには、\-\-help を使うこと。
.TP
\fB\-r\fR, \fB\-\-raw\fR
.\"O Use the raw output format.
生の出力形式を使う。
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
.\"O Display version information and exit.
バージョン情報を表示して、終了する。
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
.\"O Display help text and exit.
ヘルプを表示して、終了する。
.\"O .SH AUTHORS
.SH 著者
.MT kerolasa@iki.fi
Sami Kerola
.ME
.\"O .SH "SEE ALSO"
.SH 関連項目
.BR uuidgen (1),
.BR libuuid (3),
.UR https://\:tools.ietf.org\:/html\:/rfc4122
RFC 4122
.UE
.\"O .SH AVAILABILITY
.SH 入手方法
.\"O The example command is part of the util-linux package and is available from
.\"O .UR https://\:www.kernel.org\:/pub\:/linux\:/utils\:/util-linux/
.\"O Linux Kernel Archive
.\"O .UE .
uuidparse コマンドは util-linux パッケージの一部であり、
.UR https://\:www.kernel.org\:/pub\:/linux\:/utils\:/util-linux/
Linux Kernel Archive
.UE
から入手できる。
