.\" Copyright (c) 1989, 1990 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)wall.1	6.5 (Berkeley) 4/23/91
.\"
.\" %FreeBSD: src/usr.bin/wall/wall.1,v 1.3.2.3 2001/10/05 15:21:42 ru Exp %
.\" $FreeBSD$
.\" Updated Wed May 11 JST 2005 by Kentaro Shirakata <argrath@ub32.org>
.\" Updated & Modified Wed Jul 31 21:55:52 JST 2019
.\"         by Yuichi SATO <ysato444@ybb.ne.jp>
.\"
.TH WALL "1" "August 2013" "util-linux" "User Commands"
.\"O .SH NAME
.SH 名前
.\"O wall \- write a message to all users
wall \- ログインしているすべてのユーザにメッセージを送る
.\"O .SH SYNOPSIS
.SH 書式
.B wall
.RB [ \-n ]
.RB [ \-t
.IR timeout ]
.RB [ \-g
.IR group ]
.RI [ message " | " file ]
.\"O .SH DESCRIPTION
.SH 説明
.\"O .B wall
.\"O displays a
.\"O .IR message ,
.\"O or the contents of a
.\"O .IR file ,
.\"O or otherwise its standard input, on the terminals of all currently logged
.\"O in users.  The command will wrap lines that are longer than 79 characters.
.\"O Short lines are whitespace padded to have 79 characters.  The command will
.\"O always put a carriage return and new line at the end of each line.
.B wall
は
.I message
、または
.I file
の内容、または標準入力の内容を現在ログインしているすべての
ユーザの端末に表示する。
このコマンドは、79 文字より多い行を折り返す。
また、79 文字より短い行は空白を追加して、79 文字にする。
このコマンドは、各行の終わりにキャリッジリターンと改行を必ず付ける。
.PP
.\"O Only the superuser can write on the terminals of users who have chosen to
.\"O deny messages or are using a program which automatically denies messages.
スーパユーザだけが、メッセージを拒否しているユーザや自動的に
メッセージを拒否するプログラムを使っているユーザの端末にメッセージを
送ることができる。
.PP
.\"O Reading from a
.\"O .I file
.\"O is refused when the invoker is not superuser and the program is
.\"O set-user-ID or set-group-ID.
起動したのがスーパユーザか、プログラムが suid か sgid でない限り、
ファイルからの読み込みは拒否される。
.\"O .SH OPTIONS
.SH オプション
.TP
.BR \-n , " \-\-nobanner"
.\"O Suppress the banner.
バナーを表示しない。
.TP
.BR \-t , " \-\-timeout " \fItimeout\fR
.\"O Abandon the write attempt to the terminals after \fItimeout\fR seconds.
.\"O This \fItimeout\fR must be a positive integer.  The default value
.\"O is 300 seconds, which is a legacy from the time when people ran terminals over
.\"O modem lines.
\fItimeout\fR 秒後に端末の書き込めない場合に諦める。
\fItimeout\fR は正の整数でなければならない。
デフォルトの値は 300 秒であり、端末をモデム線で実行していた昔の時代の時間である。
.TP
.BR \-g , " \-\-group " \fIgroup\fR
.\"O Limit printing message to members of group defined as a
.\"O .I group
.\"O argument.  The argument can be group name or GID.
.I group
引き数で定義されるメンバーグループに限定してメッセージを表示する。
引数はグループ名または GID である。
.TP
.BR \-V , " \-\-version"
.\"O Display version information and exit.
バージョン情報を表示して、終了する。
.TP
.BR \-h , " \-\-help"
.\"O Display help text and exit.
ヘルプを表示して、終了する。
.\"O .SH NOTES
.SH 注意
.\"O Some sessions, such as wdm, that have in the beginning of
.\"O .BR utmp (5)
.\"O ut_type data a ':' character will not get the message from
.\"O .BR wall .
.\"Osato:
.\"Osato: この訳は自信なし。
.\"Osato: 
wdm のようなセッションでは、
.BR utmp (5)
ut_type データの始めに ':' 文字を
.BR wall
からのメッセージとして受け取らない。
.\"O This is done to avoid write errors.
これはエラーを避けるために行われる。
.\"O .SH SEE ALSO
.SH 関連項目
.BR mesg (1),
.BR talk (1),
.BR write (1),
.BR shutdown (8)
.\"O .SH HISTORY
.SH 履歴
.\"O A
.\"O .B wall
.\"O command appeared in Version 7 AT&T UNIX.
.B wall
コマンドは Version 7 AT&T UNIX で初めて実装された。
.\"O .SH AVAILABILITY
.SH 入手方法
.\"O The wall command is part of the util-linux package and is available from
.\"O .UR https://\:www.kernel.org\:/pub\:/linux\:/utils\:/util-linux/
.\"O Linux Kernel Archive
.\"O .UE .
wall コマンドは、util-linux パッケージの一部であり、
.UR https://\:www.kernel.org\:/pub\:/linux\:/utils\:/util-linux/
Linux Kernel Archive
.UE
から入手できる。
