.\" Copyright (c) 1980, 1990 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"     This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"     California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" @(#)whereis.1 from UCB 4.2
.\"
.\" Japanese Version Copyright (c) 2001-2019 Yuichi SATO
.\"         all rights reserved.
.\" Translated Sat Feb 17 03:19:58 JST 2001
.\"         by Yuichi SATO <sato@complex.eng.hokudai.ac.jp>
.\" Updated & Modified Fri Aug  2 20:25:12 JST 2019
.\"         by Yuichi SATO <ysato444@ybb.ne.jp>
.\"
.TH WHEREIS 1 "October 2014" "util-linux" "User Commands"
.\"O .SH NAME
.SH 名前
.\"O whereis \- locate the binary, source, and manual page files for a command
whereis \- コマンドのバイナリ・ソース・マニュアルファイルの場所を示す
.\"O .SH SYNOPSIS
.SH 書式
.B whereis
[options]
.RB [ \-BMS
.IR directory "... " \fB\-f\fR ]
.IR name ...
.\"O .SH DESCRIPTION
.SH 説明
.\"O .B whereis
.\"O locates the binary, source and manual files for the specified command names.
.B whereis
は指定したファイルのバイナリ・ソース・マニュアルファイルの場所を示す。
.\"O The supplied names are first stripped of leading pathname components and any
.\"O (single) trailing extension of the form
.\"O .BI . ext
.\"O (for example:
.\"O .BR .c )
与えられた名前は、最初に始めのパス名の部分が取り除かれ、次に
.RB ( .c
のような)
.BI . ext
という形式の拡張子が取り除かれる。
.\"O Prefixes of
.\"O .B s.
.\"O resulting from use of source code control are also dealt with.
ソースコード管理に使われている
.B s.
というプレフィックスがついたファイルも表示される。
.\"O .B whereis
.\"O then attempts to locate the desired program in the standard Linux places, and
.\"O in the places specified by
.\"O .B $PATH
.\"O and
.\"O .BR $MANPATH .
.B whereis
は、標準的な Linux ファイル階層中と、
.B $PATH
と
.B $MANPATH
で指定された場所で、対象のプログラムを探す。
.sp
.\"O The search restrictions (options \fB\-b\fP, \fB\-m\fP and \fB\-s\fP)
.\"O are cumulative and apply to the subsequent \fIname\fP patterns on
.\"O the command line.  Any new search restriction resets the search mask.
.\"O For example,
コマンドラインに指定された検索の制限
(オプション \fB\-b\fP, \fB\-m\fP, \fB\-s\fP) は、
足し合わされて、その後に続く \fIname\fP パターンに適用される。
新たに検索の制限を指定すると、検索のマスクがリセットされる。
例えば、
.RS
.sp
.B "whereis -bm ls tr -m gcc"
.sp
.RE
.\"O searches for "ls" and "tr" binaries and man pages, and for "gcc" man pages only.
を実行すると、"ls" と "tr" のバイナリとマニュアルページ、
"gcc" のマニュアルのみを検索する。
.sp
.\"O The options \fB\-B\fP, \fB\-M\fP and \fB\-S\fP reset search paths for the
.\"O subsequent \fIname\fP patterns.  For example,
オプション \fB\-B\fP, \fB\-M\fP and \fB\-S\fP は、
その後に続く \fIname\fP パターンの検索パスをリセットする。
例えば、
.RS
.sp
.B "whereis -m ls -M /usr/share/man/man1 -f cal"
.sp
.RE
.\"O searches for "ls" man pages in all default paths, but for "cal" in
.\"O the /usr/share/man/man1 directory only.
を実行すると、"ls" の man ページはすべてのデフォルトパスで検索されるが、
"cal" の man ページは /usr/share/man/man1 ディレクトリのみで検索される。

.\"O .SH OPTIONS
.SH オプション
.TP
.IP \fB\-b\fP
.\"O Search for binaries.
バイナリを探す。
.IP \fB\-m\fP
.\"O Search for manuals.
man ページを探す。
.IP \fB\-s\fP
.\"O Search for sources.
ソースを探す。
.IP \fB\-u\fP
.\"O Only show the command names that have unusual entries.  A command is said to be
.\"O unusual if it does not have just one entry of each explicitly requested type.
通常とは異なるエントリのコマンドのみを表示する。
要求されるタイプの 1 つのエントリがコマンドにない場合、
通常とは異なるコマンドと呼ばれる。
.\"O Thus
.\"O .RB ' "whereis \-m \-u *" '
.\"O asks for those files in the current directory which have no documentation file,
.\"O or more than one.
.\"Osato:
.\"Osato: 原文が動作とあっていない気がします。
.\"Osato: 手元で試したところドキュメントのないファイル
.\"Osato: (which have no documentation) は表示されないようです。
.\"Osato:
よって、
.RB ` "whereis\ \ \-m\ \ \-u\ \ *" '
は、カレントディレクトリのファイルからドキュメントがないもの、
または 1 つ以上のものを探す。
.IP "\fB\-B \fIlist\fP"
.\"O Limit the places where
.\"O .B whereis
.\"O searches for binaries, by a whitespace-separated list of directories.
.B whereis
がバイナリを探すディレクトリを制限する。
ディレクトリは空白区切りのリストで指定する。
.IP "\fB\-M \fIlist\fP"
.\"O Limit the places where
.\"O .B whereis
.\"O searches for manuals and documentation in Info format, by a
.\"O whitespace-separated list of directories.
.B whereis
が man ページと Info 形式のドキュメントを探すディレクトリを制限する。
ディレクトリは空白区切りのリストで指定する。
.IP "\fB\-S \fIlist\fP"
.\"O Limit the places where
.\"O .B whereis
.\"O searches for sources, by a whitespace-separated list of directories.
.B whereis
がソースを探すディレクトリを制限する。
ディレクトリは空白区切りのリストで指定する。
.IP "\fB\-f\fP"
.\"O Terminates the directory list and signals the start of filenames.  It
.\"O .I must
.\"O be used when any of the
.\"O .BR \-B ,
.\"O .BR \-M ,
.\"O or
.\"O .B \-S
.\"O options is used.
直前のディレクトリリストを終了させ、
ファイル名指定の開始であることを示す。
.BR \-B ,
.BR \-M ,
.B \-S
オプションのいずれかを使う場合は、
このオプションを
.IR 使わなければならない 。
.IP "\fB\-l"
.\"O Output the list of effective lookup paths that
.\"O .B whereis
.\"O is using.  When none of
.\"O .BR \-B ,
.\"O .BR \-M ,
.\"O or
.\"O .B \-S
.\"O is specified, the option will output the hard-coded paths
.\"O that the command was able to find on the system.
.B whereis
が使う有効な検索パスを表示する。
.BR \-B ,
.BR \-M ,
.B \-S
のいずれも指定されない場合、このオプションは、
コマンドがシステム上で検索するハードコードされたパスを表示する。
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
.\"O Display help text and exit.
ヘルプを表示して、終了する。
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
.\"O Display version information and exit.
バージョン情報を表示して、終了する。
.\"O .SH EXAMPLE
.SH 例
.\"O To find all files in
.\"O .I /usr/\:bin
.\"O which are not documented
.\"O in
.\"O .I /usr/\:man/\:man1
.\"O or have no source in
.\"O .IR /usr/\:src :
.I /usr/\:bin
にあるファイルから
.I /usr/\:man/\:man1
に man ページがない、または
.I /usr/\:src
にソースがないようなもの探す。
.IP
.B cd /usr/bin
.br
.B whereis \-u \-ms \-M /usr/man/man1 \-S /usr/src \-f *
.\"O .SH "FILE SEARCH PATHS"
.SH ファイル検索パス
.\"O By default
.\"O .B whereis
.\"O tries to find files from hard-coded paths, which are defined with glob
.\"O patterns.  The command attempts to use the contents of
.\"O .B $PATH
.\"O and
.\"O .B $MANPATH
.\"O environment variables as default search path.  The easiest way to know
.\"O what paths are in use is to add the
.\"O .B \-l
.\"O listing option.  Effects of the
.\"O .BR \-B ,
.\"O .BR \-M ,
.\"O and
.\"O .B \-S
.\"O are displayed with
.\"O .BR \-l .
デフォルトでは
.B whereis
はハードコードされたパスでファイルを検索しようとする。
このパスは glob パターンで定義される。
このコマンドは、
.B $PATH
と
.B $MANPATH
環境変数をデフォルトの検索パスとして使おうとする。
どのパスが使われるかを簡単に知りたい場合、リストのオプション
.B \-l
を指定すればよい。
.BR \-B ,
.BR \-M ,
.B \-S
の影響を知りたい場合も、
.BR \-l
で表示できる。
.PP
.\"O .SH ENVIRONMENT
.SH 環境変数
.IP WHEREIS_DEBUG=all
.\"O enables debug output.
デバッグ出力を有効にする。
.\"O .SH AVAILABILITY
.SH 入手方法
.\"O The whereis command is part of the util-linux package and is available from
.\"O .UR https://\:www.kernel.org\:/pub\:/linux\:/utils\:/util-linux/
.\"O Linux Kernel Archive
.\"O .UE .
whereis コマンドは、util-linux パッケージの一部であり、
.UR https://\:www.kernel.org\:/pub\:/linux\:/utils\:/util-linux/
Linux Kernel Archive
.UE
から入手できる。
