.\" Copyright (c) 1989, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This code is derived from software contributed to Berkeley by
.\" Jef Poskanzer and Craig Leres of the Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)write.1	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/6/93
.\"
.\" %FreeBSD: src/usr.bin/write/write.1,v 1.7.2.1 2000/12/08 15:14:18 ru Exp %
.\" $FreeBSD$
.\" Updated Wed May 11 JST 2005 by Kentaro Shirakata <argrath@ub32.org>
.\" Updated & Modified Fri Aug  2 21:23:30 JST 2019
.\"         by Yuichi SATO <ysato444@ybb.ne.jp>
.\"
.TH WRITE 1 "March 1995" "util-linux" "User Commands"
.\"O .SH NAME
.SH 名前
.\"O write \- send a message to another user
write \- 別のユーザにメッセージを送る
.\"O .SH SYNOPSIS
.SH 書式
.B write
.I user
.RI [ ttyname ]
.\"O .SH DESCRIPTION
.SH 説明
.\"O .B write
.\"O allows you to communicate with other users, by copying lines from
.\"O your terminal to theirs.
.B write
は、あなたの端末入力行を他の端末に送ることで、
他のユーザとのコミュニケーションを可能にする。
.PP
.\"O When you run the
.\"O .B write
.\"O command, the user you are writing to gets a message of the form:
.B write
を使ってメッセージを書くと、指定されたユーザは次のような
書き出しで始まるメッセージを受け取る:
.PP
.RS
Message from yourname@yourhost on yourtty at hh:mm ...
.RE
.PP
.\"O Any further lines you enter will be copied to the specified user's
.\"O terminal.  If the other user wants to reply, they must run
.\"O .B write
.\"O as well.
この後の行は、1 行入力するたびにその内容が相手の端末にコピーされる。
もし相手が返事をしたいと思ったら、その人も
.B write
を実行して同じようにメッセージを送る必要がある。
.PP
.\"O When you are done, type an end-of-file or interrupt character.  The other
.\"O user will see the message
.\"O .B EOF
.\"O indicating that the conversation is over.
メッセージを送り終わったら、ファイルの終り文字か割り込み文字を入力する。
相手には、通信の終りを表す
.B EOF
が表示される。
.PP
.\"O You can prevent people (other than the superuser) from writing to you with
.\"O the
.\"O .BR mesg (1)
.\"O command.  Some commands, for example
.\"O .BR nroff (1)
.\"O and
.\"O .BR pr (1),
.\"O may automatically disallow writing, so that the output they produce
.\"O isn't overwritten.
他のユーザからのメッセージを拒否したいときは
(ただしスーパユーザからのメッセージは拒否できない)、
.BR mesg (1)
を使う。
.BR nroff (1)
や
.BR pr (1)
といったコマンドは自動的に書き込むのを拒否するので、
あなたの出力は上書きされない。
.PP
.\"O If the user you want to write to is logged in on more than one terminal,
.\"O you can specify which terminal to write to by giving the terminal
.\"O name as the second operand to the
.\"O .B write
.\"O command.  Alternatively, you can let
.\"O .B write
.\"O select one of the terminals \- it will pick the one with the shortest idle
.\"O time.  This is so that if the user is logged in at work and also dialed up
.\"O from home, the message will go to the right place.
2 つ以上の端末にログインしているユーザにメッセージを送りたい場合には、
どの端末にメッセージを送るかを、
.B write
の 2 番目の引き数で指定することができる。
端末名を指定しなければ、もっともアイドル時間の短い端末が選択される。
事務所でログインしたままになっているユーザが、今は自宅からモデムで
ログインしている場合などは、これによって正しい端末が選択されるだろう。
.PP
.\"O The traditional protocol for writing to someone is that the string `\-o',
.\"O either at the end of a line or on a line by itself, means that it's the
.\"O other person's turn to talk.  The string `oo' means that the person
.\"O believes the conversation to be over.
.B write
コマンドで人とやりとりする時には、次のようなプロトコルが使われてきた。
行末の `\-o' あるいは、`\-o'だけの行は、あなたが話す番ですよ、という意味であり、
`oo'は、会話を終りにしましょうという意味になる。
.\"O .SH "SEE ALSO"
.SH 関連項目
.BR mesg (1),
.BR talk (1),
.BR who (1)
.\"O .SH HISTORY
.SH 履歴
.\"O A
.\"O .B write
.\"O command appeared in Version 6 AT&T UNIX.
.B write
コマンドは Version 6 AT&T UNIX から登場した。
.\"O .SH AVAILABILITY
.SH 入手方法
.\"O The write command is part of the util-linux package and is available from
.\"O https://www.kernel.org/pub/linux/utils/util-linux/.
write コマンドは、util-linux パッケージの一部であり、
https://www.kernel.org/pub/linux/utils/util-linux/
から入手できる。
