.\"
.\" Japanese Version Copyright (c) 2020 Yuichi SATO
.\"         all rights reserved.
.\" Translated Thu Apr 16 22:47:17 JST 2020
.\"         by Yuichi SATO <ysato444@ybb.ne.jp>
.\"
.TH BLKDISCARD 8 "July 2014" "util-linux" "System Administration"
.\"O .SH NAME
.SH 名前
.\"O blkdiscard \- discard sectors on a device
blkdiscard \- デバイスのセクタを破棄する。
.\"O .SH SYNOPSIS
.SH 書式
.B blkdiscard
[options]
.RB [ \-o
.IR offset ]
.RB [ \-l
.IR length ]
.I device
.\"O .SH DESCRIPTION
.SH 説明
.\"O .B blkdiscard
.\"O is used to discard device sectors.  This is useful for solid-state
.\"O drivers (SSDs) and thinly-provisioned storage.  Unlike
.\"O .BR fstrim (8),
.\"O this command is used directly on the block device.
.B blkdiscard
はデバイスのセクタを破棄するために使われる。
これはソリッドステートドライブ (SSD) と、シンプロビジョニングされたストレージで役立つ。
.BR fstrim (8)
とは違い、このコマンドはブロックデバイスに直接使用される。
.PP
.\"O By default,
.\"O .B blkdiscard
.\"O will discard all blocks on the device.  Options may be used to modify
.\"O this behavior based on range or size, as explained below.
デフォルトでは
.B blkdiscard
はデバイスの全てのブロックを破棄する。
以下に示すように、この挙動はオプションを用いて範囲またはサイズに
基づくように変更できる。
.PP
.\"O The
.\"O .I device
.\"O argument is the pathname of the block device.
.I device
引き数はブロックデバイスのパス名である。
.PP
.\"O .B WARNING: All data in the discarded region on the device will be lost!
.B 警告: デバイス上の破棄された範囲の全てのデータは失われる!
.\"O .SH OPTIONS
.SH オプション
.\"O The
.\"O .I offset
.\"O and
.\"O .I length
.\"O arguments may be followed by the multiplicative suffixes KiB (=1024),
.\"O MiB (=1024*1024), and so on for GiB, TiB, PiB, EiB, ZiB and YiB (the "iB" is
.\"O optional, e.g., "K" has the same meaning as "KiB") or the suffixes
.\"O KB (=1000), MB (=1000*1000), and so on for GB, TB, PB, EB, ZB and YB.
.I offset
と
.I length
引き数には倍数のサフィックス KiB (=1024), MiB (=1024*1024),
GiB, TiB, PiB, EiB, ZiB, YiB を付けることができる
("iB" はオプションであり、例えば "K" は "KiB" と同じ意味である)。
また、フィックス KB (=1000), MB (=1000*1000),
GB, TB, PB, EB, ZB, YB を付けることもできる。
.TP
.BR \-o , " \-\-offset \fIoffset"
.\"O Byte offset into the device from which to start discarding.  The provided value
.\"O will be aligned to the device sector size.  The default value is zero.
デバイス上で破棄を開始するバイトオフセット。
指定された値は、デバイスのセクタサイズで調整される。
デフォルト値は 0 である。
.TP
.BR \-l , " \-\-length \fIlength"
.\"O The number of bytes to discard (counting from the starting point).  The provided value
.\"O will be aligned to the device sector size.  If the specified value extends past
.\"O the end of the device,
.\"O .B blkdiscard
.\"O will stop at the device size boundary.  The default value extends to the end
.\"O of the device.
(開始地点から数えた) 破棄するバイト数。
指定された値は、デバイスのセクタサイズで調整される。
指定された値が、デバイスの終わりを越した場合、
.B blkdiscard
はデバイスのサイズ境界で停止する。
デフォルト値はデバイスの終わりまでである。
.TP
.BR \-p , " \-\-step \fIlength"
.\"O The number of bytes to discard within one iteration. The default is to discard
.\"O all by one ioctl call.
1 回で破棄するバイト数。
デフォルトでは 1 回の ioctl 呼び出しで全てを破棄する。
.TP
.BR \-s , " \-\-secure"
.\"O Perform a secure discard.  A secure discard is the same as a regular discard
.\"O except that all copies of the discarded blocks that were possibly created by
.\"O garbage collection must also be erased.  This requires support from the device.
セキュアな破棄を行う。
セキュアな破棄は、通常の破棄と同様であるが、
ガベージコレクションで作成される可能性がある破棄ブロックのコピーも
消去される。
これにはデバイスのサポートが必要である。
.TP
.BR \-z , " \-\-zeroout"
.\"O Zero-fill rather than discard.
破棄ではなく 0 埋めする。
.TP
.BR \-v , " \-\-verbose"
.\"O Display the aligned values of
.\"O .I offset
.\"O and
.\"O .IR length .
.\"O If the \fB\-\-step\fR option is specified, it prints the discard progress every second.
調整された
.I offset
と
.I length
の値を表示する。
\fB\-\-step\fR オプションが指定された場合、破棄の進捗を毎秒表示する。
.TP
.BR \-V , " \-\-version"
.\"O Display version information and exit.
バージョン情報を表示して、終了する。
.TP
.BR \-h , " \-\-help"
.\"O Display help text and exit.
ヘルプを表示して、終了する。
.\"O .SH AUTHOR
.SH 著者
.MT lczerner@redhat.com
Lukas Czerner
.ME
.\"O .SH SEE ALSO
.SH 関連項目
.BR fstrim (8)
.\"O .SH AVAILABILITY
.SH 入手方法
.\"O The blkdiscard command is part of the util-linux package and is available
.\"O .UR https://\:www.kernel.org\:/pub\:/linux\:/utils\:/util-linux/
.\"O Linux Kernel Archive
.\"O .UE .
blkdiscard コマンドは util-linux パッケージの一部であり、
.UR https://\:www.kernel.org\:/pub\:/linux\:/utils\:/util-linux/
Linux Kernel Archive
.UE
から入手できる。
