.\"
.\" Japanese Version Copyright (c) 2020-2021 Yuichi SATO
.\"         all rights reserved.
.\" Translated Sat Apr 18 19:45:30 JST 2020
.\"         by Yuichi SATO <ysato444@ybb.ne.jp>
.\" Updated & Modified Mon Feb  1 21:46:50 JST 2021 by Yuichi SATO
.\"
.TH BLKZONE 8 "February 2017" "util-linux" "System Administration"
.\"O .SH NAME
.SH 名前
.\"O blkzone \- run zone command on a device
blkzone \- デバイスにゾーン (zone) コマンドを実行する。
.\"O .SH SYNOPSIS
.SH 書式
.B blkzone
.I command
[options]
.I device
.\"O .SH DESCRIPTION
.SH 説明
.\"O .B blkzone
.\"O is used to run zone command on device that support the Zoned Block Commands
.\"O (ZBC) or Zoned-device ATA Commands (ZAC). The zones to operate on can be
.\"O specified using the offset, count and length options.
.B blkzone
は Zoned Block Commands (ZBC) または Zoned-device ATA Commands (ZAC) を
サポートするデバイスにゾーンコマンドを実行するのに使われる。
操作するゾーンは、offset, count, length オプションを使って指定できる。
.PP
.\"O The
.\"O .I device
.\"O argument is the pathname of the block device.
.I device
引き数はブロックデバイスのパス名である。
.\"O .SH COMMANDS
.SH コマンド
.SS report
.\"O The command \fBblkzone report\fP is used to report device zone information.
コマンド \fBblkzone report\fP を使って、デバイスのゾーン情報を表示できる。
.PP
.\"O By default, the command will report all zones from the start of the
.\"O block device. Options may be used to modify this behavior, changing the
.\"O starting zone or the size of the report, as explained below.
デフォルトでは、このコマンドはブロックデバイスの開始点からの全ての
ゾーンを表示する。
オプションでこの挙動を変更することができる。
以下に説明するように、開始ゾーンやレポートのサイズを変更できる。

.\"O .B Report output
.B レポート出力
.TS
tab(:);
l l.
.\"O start:Zone start sector
.\"O len:Zone length in number of sectors
.\"O wptr:Zone write pointer position
.\"O reset:Reset write pointer recommended
.\"O non-seq:Non-sequential write resources active
.\"O cond:Zone condition
.\"O type:Zone type
start:ゾーンの開始セクタ
len:ゾーンの長さ (セクタ数)
wptr:ゾーンの書き込みポインターの位置
reset:推奨される書き込みポインターのリセット
non-seq:非連続書き込みリソースがアクティブであるか
cond:ゾーンの条件
type:ゾーンのタイプ
.TE

.\"O .B Zone conditions
.B ゾーン条件
.TS
tab(:);
l l.
.\"O cl:Closed
.\"O nw:Not write pointer
.\"O em:Empty
.\"O fu:Full
.\"O oe:Explicitly opened
.\"O oi:Implicitly opened
.\"O ol:Offline
.\"O ro:Read only
.\"O x?:Reserved conditions (should not be reported)
cl:クローズされている。
nw:書き込みポインターではない。
em:空である。
fu:いっぱいである。
oe:明示的にオープンされている。
oi:暗黙的にオープンされている。
ol:オフラインである。
ro:書き込みのみである。
x?:予約された条件である (レポートすべきでない)。
.TE

.SS reset
.\"O The command \fBblkzone reset\fP is used to reset one or more zones. Unlike
.\"O .BR sg_reset_wp (8),
.\"O this command operates from the block layer and can reset a range of zones.
コマンド \fBblkzone reset\fP を使い、1 つ以上のゾーンをリセットできる。
.BR sg_reset_wp (8)
と異なり、このコマンドはブロックレイヤーから操作し、ゾーンの範囲を
リセットできる。

.SS open
.\"O The command \fBblkzone open\fP is used to explicitly open one or more zones.
.\"O Unlike
.\"O .BR sg_zone (8),
.\"O open action, this command operates from the block layer and can open a range
.\"O of zones.
コマンド \fBblkzone open\fP を使い、1 つ以上のゾーンをオープンできる。
.BR sg_zone (8)
の open アクションとは異なり、このコマンドはブロックレイヤーから操作し、
ゾーンの範囲をオープンできる。

.SS close
.\"O The command \fBblkzone close\fP is used to close one or more zones. Unlike
.\"O .BR sg_zone (8),
.\"O close action, this command operates from the block layer and can close a range
.\"O of zones.
コマンド \fBblkzone close\fP を使い、1 つ以上のゾーンをクローズできる。
.BR sg_zone (8)
の close アクションとは異なり、このコマンドはブロックレイヤーから操作し、
ゾーンの範囲をクローズできる。

.SS finish
.\"O The command \fBblkzone finish\fP is used to finish (transition to full condition)
.\"O one or more zones. Unlike
.\"O .BR sg_zone (8),
.\"O finish action, this command operates from the block layer and can finish a range
.\"O of zones.
コマンド \fBblkzone finish\fP を使い、1 つ以上のゾーンを終了できる
(完全な状態への遷移ができる)。
.BR sg_zone (8)
の finish アクションとは異なり、このコマンドはブロックレイヤーから操作し、
ゾーンの範囲を終了できる。

.PP
.\"O By default, the reset, open, close and finish commands will operate from the zone
.\"O at device sector 0 and operate on all zones. Options may be used to modify this
.\"O behavior as explained below.
デフォルトでは、reset, open, close, finishコマンドは、
デバイスのセクタ 0 にあるゾーンから操作し、全てのゾーンを操作する。
下記に示すように、オプションを使ってこの挙動を変更可能である。

.\"O .SH OPTIONS
.SH オプション
.\"O The
.\"O .I offset
.\"O and
.\"O .I length
.\"O option arguments may be followed by the multiplicative suffixes KiB (=1024),
.\"O MiB (=1024*1024), and so on for GiB, TiB, PiB, EiB, ZiB and YiB (the "iB" is
.\"O optional, e.g., "K" has the same meaning as "KiB") or the suffixes
.\"O KB (=1000), MB (=1000*1000), and so on for GB, TB, PB, EB, ZB and YB.
オプションの引き数
.I offset
と
.I length
は倍数のサフィックス KiB (=1024), MiB (=1024*1024),
GiB, TiB, PiB, EiB, ZiB, YiB を付けることができる
("iB" はオプションであり、例えば "K" は "KiB" と同じ意味である)。
また、フィックス KB (=1000), MB (=1000*1000),
GB, TB, PB, EB, ZB, YB を付けることもできる。
.\"O Additionally, the 0x prefix can be used to specify \fIoffset\fR and
.\"O \fIlength\fR in hex.
さらに、\fIoffset\fR と\fIlength\fR を 16 進数で指定する場合は、
プレフィックス 0x を付ける。
.TP
.BR \-o , " \-\-offset "\fIsector\fP
.\"O The starting zone specified as a sector offset. The provided offset in sector
.\"O units (512 bytes) should match the start of a zone. The default value is zero.
開始ゾーンをセクタオフセットで指定する。
指定されたセクタ単位 (512 バイト単位) のオフセットは、
ゾーンの開始点を一致する必要がある。
デフォルト値は 0 である。
.TP
.BR \-l , " \-\-length "\fIsectors\fP
.\"O The maximum number of sectors the command should operate on. The default value
.\"O is the number of sectors remaining after \fIoffset\fR. This option cannot be
.\"O used together with the option \fB\-\-count\fP.
コマンドで操作する最大セクタ数。
デフォルト値は、\fIoffset\fR 以降の残りのセクタである。
このオプションは、\fB\-\-count\fP オプションと一緒に指定できない。
.TP
.BR \-c , " \-\-count "\fIcount\fP
.\"O The maximum number of zones the command should operate on. The default value
.\"O is the number of zones starting from \fIoffset\fR. This option cannot be
.\"O used together with the option \fB\-\-length\fP.
コマンドで操作する最大ゾーン数。
デフォルト値は、\fIoffset\fR から始まるゾーン数である。
このオプションは、\fB\-\-length\fP オプションと一緒に指定できない。
.TP
.BR \-f , " \-\-force"
.\"O Enforce commands to change zone status on block devices used by the system.
システムが使っているブロックデバイスに対して、
ゾーンの状態を変更するために、強制的にコマンドを実行する。
.TP
.BR \-v , " \-\-verbose"
.\"O Display the number of zones returned in the report or the range of sectors
.\"O reset.
レポートで返されるゾーン数、またはリセットされるセクタの範囲を
表示する。
.TP
.BR \-V , " \-\-version"
.\"O Display version information and exit.
バージョン情報を表示して、終了する。
.TP
.BR \-h , " \-\-help"
.\"O Display help text and exit.
ヘルプを表示して、終了する。
.\"O .SH AUTHORS
.SH 著者
.nf
Shaun Tancheff <shaun@tancheff.com>
Karel Zak <kzak@redhat.com>
.fi
.\"O .SH SEE ALSO
.SH 関連項目
.BR sg_rep_zones (8)
.\"O .SH AVAILABILITY
.SH 入手方法
.\"O The blkzone command is part of the util-linux package and is available from
.\"O .UR https://\:www.kernel.org\:/pub\:/linux\:/utils\:/util-linux/
.\"O Linux Kernel Archive
.\"O .UE .
blkzone コマンドは util-linux パッケージの一部であり、
.UR https://\:www.kernel.org\:/pub\:/linux\:/utils\:/util-linux/
Linux Kernel Archive
.UE
から入手できる。
