.\" Copyright 1992, 1993 Rickard E. Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" May be distributed under the GNU General Public License
.\"
.\" Japanese Version Copyright (c) 1997 NAKANO Takeo all rights reserved.
.\" Translated Mon Mar 16 1998 by NAKANO Takeo <nakano@apm.seikei.ac.jp>
.\" Updated & Modified Fri Nov  1 15:08:59 JST 2019
.\"         by Yuichi SATO <ysato444@ybb.ne.jp>
.\" Updated & Modified Mon Feb  1 23:10:53 JST 2021 by Yuichi SATO
.\"
.TH FDFORMAT 8 "June 2020" "util-linux" "System Administration"
.\"O .SH NAME
.\"O fdformat \- low-level format a floppy disk
.SH 名前
fdformat \- フロッピーディスクの低レベルフォーマットを行う
.\"O .SH SYNOPSIS
.SH 書式
.B fdformat
.RI [options] " device"
.\"O .SH DESCRIPTION
.SH 説明
.\"O .B fdformat
.\"O does a low-level format on a floppy disk.
.\"O .I device
.\"O is usually one of the following (for floppy devices the major = 2, and the
.\"O minor is shown for informational purposes only):
.B fdformat
はフロッピーディスクの低レベルフォーマット (low level format) を行う。
.I device
には通常以下のどれかを指定する。 (フロッピーデバイスは major 番号 2 で
ある。以下の minor 番号は、単に参考のために示した。)
.sp
.nf
.RS
/dev/fd0d360  (minor = 4)
/dev/fd0h1200 (minor = 8)
/dev/fd0D360  (minor = 12)
/dev/fd0H360  (minor = 12)
/dev/fd0D720  (minor = 16)
/dev/fd0H720  (minor = 16)
/dev/fd0h360  (minor = 20)
/dev/fd0h720  (minor = 24)
/dev/fd0H1440 (minor = 28)
.PP
/dev/fd1d360  (minor = 5)
/dev/fd1h1200 (minor = 9)
/dev/fd1D360  (minor = 13)
/dev/fd1H360  (minor = 13)
/dev/fd1D720  (minor = 17)
/dev/fd1H720  (minor = 17)
/dev/fd1h360  (minor = 21)
/dev/fd1h720  (minor = 25)
/dev/fd1H1440 (minor = 29)
.RE
.fi
.PP
.\"O The generic floppy devices, /dev/fd0 and /dev/fd1, will fail to work with
.\"O .B fdformat
.\"O when a non-standard format is being used, or if the format has not been
.\"O autodetected earlier.  In this case, use
.\"O .BR setfdprm (8)
.\"O to load the disk parameters.
汎用のフロッピーデバイス /dev/fd0 と /dev/fd1 は、非標準のフォーマット
が利用されている場合や、フォーマットがあらかじめ自動判別されていない
場合には
.B fdformat
では動作しない。このような場合には、
.BR setfdprm (8)
を用いてディスクのパラメータをロードすること。
.\"O .SH OPTIONS
.SH オプション
.TP
\fB\-f\fR, \fB\-\-from\fR \fIN\fR
.\"O Start at the track \fIN\fR (default is 0).
トラック \fIN\fR (デフォルトは 0) から開始する。
.TP
\fB\-t\fR, \fB\-\-to\fR \fIN\fR
.\"O Stop at the track \fIN\fR.
トラック \fIN\fR で終了する。
.TP
\fB\-r\fR, \fB\-\-repair\fR \fIN\fR
.\"O Try to repair tracks failed during the verification (max \fIN\fR retries).
ベリファイ中に失敗した場合、トラックの修復を試みる
(最大 \fIN\fR 回試す)。
.TP
\fB\-n\fR, \fB\-\-no\-verify\fR
.\"O Skip the verification that is normally performed after the formatting.
通常フォーマット後に実行されるベリファイをスキップさせる。
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
.\"O Display version information and exit.
バージョン情報を表示して、終了する。
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
.\"O Display help text and exit.
ヘルプを表示して、終了する。
.\"O .SH NOTES
.SH 注意
.\"O This utility does not handle USB floppy disk drives. Use
.\"O .BR ufiformat (8)
.\"O instead.
このユーティリティは USB フロッピーディスクドライバーを扱えない。
代わりに
.BR ufiformat (8)
を使うこと。
.\"O .SH AUTHORS
.SH 著者
Werner Almesberger (almesber@nessie.cs.id.ethz.ch)
.\"O .SH SEE ALSO
.SH 関連項目
.BR fd (4),
.BR emkfs (8),
.BR mkfs (8),
.BR setfdprm (8),
.BR ufiformat (8)
.\"O .SH AVAILABILITY
.SH 入手方法
.\"O The fdformat command is part of the util-linux package and is available from
.\"O https://www.kernel.org/pub/linux/utils/util-linux/.
fdformat コマンドは util-linux パッケージの一部であり、
https://www.kernel.org/pub/linux/utils/util-linux/
から入手できる。
