.\" Copyright 1993, 1994, 1995 by Theodore Ts'o.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" This file may be copied under the terms of the GNU Public License.
.\"
.\" Japanese Version Copyright (c) 2020-2021 Yuichi SATO
.\"         all rights reserved.
.\" Translated Sun Apr 19 00:32:28 JST 2020
.\"         by Yuichi SATO <ysato444@ybb.ne.jp>
.\" Updated & Modified Tue Feb  2 06:17:40 JST 2021 by Yuichi SATO
.\"
.TH FINDFS 8 "March 2014" "util-linux" "System Administration"
.\"O .SH NAME
.SH 名前
.\"O findfs \- find a filesystem by label or UUID
findfs \- ラベルまたは UUID でファイルシステムを見つける。
.\"O .SH SYNOPSIS
.SH 書式
.B findfs
.BI NAME= value
.\"O .SH DESCRIPTION
.SH 説明
.\"O .B findfs
.\"O will search the block devices in the system looking for a filesystem or
.\"O partition with specified tag. The currently supported tags are:
.B findfs
は、システム上のブロックデバイスを検索し、
指定されたタグをもつファイルシステムまたはパーティションを探す。
現在サポートされているタグは以下の通り:
.TP
.B LABEL=<label>
.\"O Specifies filesystem label.
ファイルシステムラベルを指定する。
.TP
.B UUID=<uuid>
.\"O Specifies filesystem UUID.
ファイルシステム UUID を指定する。
.TP
.B PARTUUID=<uuid>
.\"O Specifies partition UUID. This partition identifier is supported for example for
.\"O GUID  Partition  Table (GPT) partition tables.
パーティション UUID を指定する。
このパーティション識別子は、例えば、GUID Partition Table (GPT) パーティションテーブルで
サポートされる。
.TP
.B PARTLABEL=<label>
.\"O Specifies partition label (name). The partition labels are supported for example for
.\"O GUID Partition Table (GPT) or MAC partition tables.
パーティションラベル (名) を指定する。
このパーティションラベルは、例えば、
GUID Partition Table (GPT) または MAC パーティションテーブルでサポートされる。
.PP
.\"O If the filesystem or partition is found, the device name will be printed on
.\"O stdout.
ファイルシステムまたはパーティションが見つかった場合、デバイス名が
標準出力に表示される。

.\"O The complete overview about filesystems and partitions you can get for example
.\"O by
ファイルシステムとパーティションの完全な概要については、例えば以下で
取得できる。
.RS

.B lsblk \-\-fs

.B partx --show <disk>

.B blkid

.RE

.PP
.\"O .SH EXIT STATUS
.SH 返り値
.RS
.PD 0
.TP
.B 0
.\"O success
成功
.TP
.B 1
.\"O label or uuid cannot be found
ラベルまたは UUID が見つからなかった。
.TP
.B 2
.\"O usage error, wrong number of arguments or unknown option
使用法のエラー。引き数の数の間違い。不明なオプション。
.PD
.RE
.\"O .SH ENVIRONMENT
.SH 環境変数
.IP LIBBLKID_DEBUG=all
.\"O enables libblkid debug output.
libblkid デバッグ出力を有効にする。
.\"O .SH AUTHORS
.SH 著者
.\"O .B findfs
.\"O was originally written by
.\"O .MT tytso@mit.edu
.\"O Theodore Ts'o
.\"O .ME
.B findfs
は元々
.MT tytso@mit.edu
Theodore Ts'o
.ME
によって書かれた。
.\"O and re-written for the util-linux package by
.\"O .MT kzak@redhat.com
.\"O Karel Zak
.\"O .ME .
そして、util-linux パッケージのために
.MT kzak@redhat.com
Karel Zak
.ME
によって書き直された。
.\"O .SH SEE ALSO
.SH 関連項目
.BR blkid (8),
.BR lsblk (8),
.BR partx (8)
.\"O .SH AVAILABILITY
.SH 入手方法
.\"O The findfs command is part of the util-linux package and is available from
.\"O .UR https://\:www.kernel.org\:/pub\:/linux\:/utils\:/util-linux/
.\"O Linux Kernel Archive
.\"O .UE .
findfs コマンドは util-linux パッケージの一部であり、
.UR https://\:www.kernel.org\:/pub\:/linux\:/utils\:/util-linux/
Linux Kernel Archive
.UE
から入手できる。
