.\"
.\" Japanese Version Copyright (c) 2001-2021 Yuichi SATO
.\"         all rights reserved.
.\" Translated Mon Mar 12 20:55:06 JST 2001
.\"         by Yuichi SATO <sato@complex.eng.hokudai.ac.jp>
.\" Updated & Modified Sun Mar 22 22:13:03 JST 2020
.\"         by Yuichi SATO <ysato444@ybb.ne.jp>
.\" Updated & Modified Wed Feb  3 00:47:24 JST 2021 by Yuichi SATO
.\"
.TH ISOSIZE 8 "June 2011" "util-linux" "System Administration"
.\"O .SH NAME
.SH 名前
.\"O isosize \- output the length of an iso9660 filesystem
isosize \- iso9660 ファイルシステムの長さを出力する
.\"O .SH SYNOPSIS
.SH 書式
.B isosize
.RI [options] " iso9660_image_file"
.\"O .SH DESCRIPTION
.SH 説明
.\"O This command outputs the length of an iso9660 file system that
.\"O is contained in given file. That file may be a normal file or
.\"O a block device (e.g. /dev/hdd or /dev/sr0). In the absence of
.\"O any switches (or errors) it will output the size of the iso9660
.\"O file system in bytes. This can now be a large number (> > 4 GB).
このコマンドは、与えられたファイルに含まれる
iso9660 ファイルシステムの長さを出力する。
ファイルは通常のファイルでも
ブロックデバイス (例えば\& /dev/hdd や /dev/sr0) でもよい。
オプション (とエラー) がない場合、
iso9660 ファイルシステムのサイズをバイト単位で出力する。
現在では大きな数 (>> 4\ GB) になることもある。
.\"O .SH OPTIONS
.SH オプション
.TP
.BR \-x , " \-\-sectors"
.\"O Show the block count and block size in human-readable form.
.\"O The output uses the term "sectors" for "blocks".
ブロックカウントとブロックサイズを人に可読な形式で出力する。
出力では「ブロック」に対して「セクタ」という言葉が使われる。
.TP
.BR \-d , " \-\-divisor " \fInumber\fR
.\"O Only has an effect when
.\"O .B \-x
.\"O is not given.  The value shown (if no errors)
.\"O is the iso9660 file size in bytes divided by
.\"O .IR number .
.\"O So if
.\"O .I number
.\"O is the block size then the shown value will be the block count.
.B \-x
が指定されていない場合にのみ効果がある。
(エラーがない場合) 出力される数値は、
.I number
で分割されたバイト単位での iso9660 ファイルシステムのサイズである。
よって、
.I number
がブロックサイズの場合、
出力される数値はブロックカウントになる。
.PP
.\"O The size of the file (or block device) holding an iso9660
.\"O filesystem can be marginally larger than the actual size of the
.\"O iso9660 filesystem.  One reason for this is that cd writers
.\"O are allowed to add "run out" sectors at the end of an iso9660
.\"O image.
iso9660 ファイルシステムを含む
ファイル (またはブロックデバイス) のサイズは、
iso9660 ファイルシステムの実際のサイズより少し大きい。
この理由の 1 つは、cd ライタが iso9660 イメージの後に
"run out" セクタを追加できることにある。
.\"O .SH EXIT STATUS
.SH 返り値
.RS
.PD 0
.TP
.B 0
.\"O success
成功
.TP
.B 1
.\"O generic failure, such as invalid usage
使い方の間違いといった、基本的な失敗
.TP
.B 32
.\"O all failed
全て失敗
.TP
.B 64
.\"O some failed
一部失敗
.PD
.RE
.\"O .SH AVAILABILITY
.SH 入手方法
.\"O The isosize command is part of the util-linux package and is available from
.\"O .UR https://\:www.kernel.org\:/pub\:/linux\:/utils\:/util-linux/
.\"O Linux Kernel Archive
.\"O .UE .
isosize コマンドは util-linux パッケージの一部であり、
.UR https://\:www.kernel.org\:/pub\:/linux\:/utils\:/util-linux/
Linux Kernel Archive
.UE
から入手できる。
