.\" Man page for the lsns command.
.\" Copyright 2015 Karel Zak <kzak@redhat.com>
.\" May be distributed under the GNU General Public License
.\"
.\" Japanese Version Copyright (c) 2020-2021 Yuichi SATO
.\"         all rights reserved.
.\" Translated Sun Apr 26 02:07:33 JST 2020
.\"         by Yuichi SATO <ysato444@ybb.ne.jp>
.\" Updated & Modified Wed Feb  3 21:33:37 JST 2021 by Yuichi SATO
.\"
.TH LSNS 8 "December 2015" "util-linux" "System Administration"
.\"O .SH NAME
.SH 名前
.\"O lsns \- list namespaces
lsns \- 名前空間をリスト表示する。
.\"O .SH SYNOPSIS
.SH 書式
.B lsns
[options]
.RI [ namespace ]

.\"O .SH DESCRIPTION
.SH 説明
.\"O .B lsns
.\"O lists information about all the currently accessible namespaces or about the
.\"O given \fInamespace\fP.  The \fInamespace\fP identifier is an inode number.
.B lsns
は現在アクセス可能な全ての名前空間、または指定された \fInamespace\fP の情報をリスト表示する。
\fInamespace\fP 識別子は i ノード番号である。

.\"O The default output is subject to change.  So whenever possible, you should
.\"O avoid using default outputs in your scripts.  Always explicitly define expected
.\"O columns by using the \fB\-\-output\fR option together with a columns list in
.\"O environments where a stable output is required.
デフォルトの出力は変更される可能性がある。
可能な限り、スクリプト内ではデフォルトの出力を使わないべきである。
固定した出力が必要な場合、その環境では \fB\-\-output\fR オプション
を使って、期待する列を常に明示的に定義するべきである。

.\"O The \fBNSFS\fP column, printed when \fBnet\fP is specified for the
.\"O \fB\-\-type\fP option, is special; it uses multi-line cells. Use the option
.\"O \fB\-\-nowrap\fR to switch to ","-separated single-line representation.
\fB\-\-type\fP オプションに \fBnet\fP を指定した場合に表示される
\fBNSFS\fP カラムは特別であり、複数行のセルを使う。
オプション \fB\-\-nowrap\fR を使うと、"," 区切りの 1 行の表示に切り替わる。

.\"O Note that \fBlsns\fR reads information directly from the /proc filesystem and
.\"O for non-root users it may return incomplete information.  The current /proc
.\"O filesystem may be unshared and affected by a PID namespace
.\"O (see \fBunshare \-\-mount\-proc\fP for more details).
\fBlsns\fR は /proc ファイルシステムから直接情報を読み込むので、
root 以外のユーザーには不完全な情報が返される点に注意すること。
現在の /proc ファイルシステムは共有されず、PID 名前空間に影響される
(詳細は \fBunshare \-\-mount\-proc\fP を参照すること)。
.\"O .B lsns
.\"O is not able to see persistent namespaces without processes where the namespace
.\"O instance is held by a bind mount to /proc/\fIpid\fR/ns/\fItype\fR.
.B lsns
はプロセスのない永続化名前空間を参照できない。
この名前空間のインスタンスは、/proc/\fIpid\fR/ns/\fItype\fR への
bind マウントによって保持されている。

.\"O .SH OPTIONS
.SH オプション
.TP
.BR \-J , " \-\-json"
.\"O Use JSON output format.
JSON 出力形式を使う。
.TP
.BR \-l , " \-\-list"
.\"O Use list output format.
リスト出力形式を使う。
.TP
.BR \-n , " \-\-noheadings"
.\"O Do not print a header line.
ヘッダ行を表示しない。
.TP
.BR \-o , " \-\-output " \fIlist\fP
.\"O Specify which output columns to print.  Use \fB\-\-help\fR
.\"O to get a list of all supported columns.
表示する出力カラムを指定する。
全てのサポートされるカラムのリストを取得するには、
\fB\-\-help\fR を使うこと。

.\"O The default list of columns may be extended if \fIlist\fP is
.\"O specified in the format \fB+\fIlist\fP (e.g., \fBlsns \-o +PATH\fP).
\fIlist\fP を \fB+\fP\fIlist\fP の形式にすることで、
カラムのデフォルトのリストを拡張できる
(例えば、\fBlsns \-o +PATH\fP)。
.TP
.B \-\-output\-all
.\"O Output all available columns.
全ての利用可能なカラムを出力する。
.TP
.BR \-p , " \-\-task " \fIpid\fP
.\"O Display only the namespaces held by the process with this \fIpid\fR.
指定した \fIpid\fR のプロセスが保持する名前空間のみを表示する。
.TP
.BR \-r , " \-\-raw"
.\"O Use the raw output format.
生の出力形式を使う。
.TP
.BR \-t , " \-\-type " \fItype\fP
.\"O Display the specified \fItype\fP of namespaces only.  The supported types are
.\"O \fBmnt\fP, \fBnet\fP, \fBipc\fP, \fBuser\fP, \fBpid\fP, \fButs\fP,
.\"O \fBcgroup\fP and \fBtime\fP.  This option may be given more than once.
指定された \fItype\fP の名前空間のみを表示する。
サポートされるタイプは、
\fBmnt\fP, \fBnet\fP, \fBipc\fP, \fBuser\fP, \fBpid\fP, \fButs\fP,
\fBcgroup\fP, \fBtime\fP である。
このオプションは 2 回以上指定できる。
.TP
.BR \-u , " \-\-notruncate"
.\"O Do not truncate text in columns.
カラムの文字列を切り詰めない。
.TP
.BR \-W , " \-\-nowrap"
.\"O Do not use multi-line text in columns.
カラムで複数行の文字列を使わない。
.TP
.BR \-V , " \-\-version"
.\"O Display version information and exit.
バージョン情報を表示して、終了する。
.TP
.BR \-h , " \-\-help"
.\"O Display help text and exit.
ヘルプを表示して、終了する。

.\"O .SH AUTHORS
.SH 著者
.nf
Karel Zak <kzak@redhat.com>
.fi

.\"O .SH SEE ALSO
.SH 関連項目
.BR nsenter (1),
.BR unshare (1),
.BR clone (2),
.BR namespaces (7)

.\"O .SH AVAILABILITY
.SH 入手方法
.\"O The lsns command is part of the util-linux package and is available from
.\"O https://www.kernel.org/pub/linux/utils/util-linux/.
lsns コマンドは util-linux パッケージの一部であり、
https://www.kernel.org/pub/linux/utils/util-linux/
から入手できる。
