.\"
.\" Japanese Version Copyright (c) 2020-2021 Yuichi SATO
.\"         all rights reserved.
.\" Translated Mon Apr 27 21:11:07 JST 2020
.\"         by Yuichi SATO <ysato444@ybb.ne.jp>
.\" Updated & Modified Wed Feb  3 22:14:44 JST 2021 by Yuichi SATO
.\"
.TH MKFS.CRAMFS 8 "April 2013" "util-linux" "System Administration"
.\"O .SH NAME
.SH 名前
.\"O mkfs.cramfs \- make compressed ROM file system
mkfs.cramfs \- 圧縮 ROM ファイルシステムを作成する。
.\"O .SH SYNOPSIS
.SH 書式
.B mkfs.cramfs
[options]
.I directory file
.\"O .SH DESCRIPTION
.SH 説明
.\"O Files on cramfs file systems are zlib-compressed one page at a time to
.\"O allow random read access.  The metadata is not compressed, but is
.\"O expressed in a terse representation that is more space-efficient than
.\"O conventional file systems.
cramfs ファイルシステム上のファイルは、zlib で圧縮され、
1 度に 1 ページが読み込まれ、ランダム読み込みアクセスができる。
メタデータは圧縮されないが、簡略化された表現であり、一般的なファイル
システムよりディスク領域を使わない。
.PP
.\"O The file system is intentionally read-only to simplify its design; random
.\"O write access for compressed files is difficult to implement.  cramfs
.\"O ships with a utility (mkcramfs) to pack files into new cramfs images.
このファイルシステムは、設計を簡単にするため、読み込みのみを意図している。
圧縮ファイルに対するランダム書き込みアクセスは、実装が難しい。
cramfs は、ファイルを新しい cramfs イメージにパッキングする
ユーティリティ (mkcramfs) とともに提供される。
.PP
.\"O File sizes are limited to less than 16\ MB.
ファイルサイズは 16\ MB 以下に制限されている。
.PP
.\"O Maximum file system size is a little under 272\ MB.  (The last file on the
.\"O file system must begin before the 256\ MB block, but can extend past it.)
最大ファイルシステムサイズは、272\ MB より小さい。
(ファイルシステムの最後のファイルは、
256\ MB ブロックより前に開始される必要があるが、
終了は 256\ MB ブロックを過ぎてもよい。)
.\"O .SH ARGUMENTS
.SH 引き数
.\"O The
.\"O .I directory
.\"O is simply the root of the directory tree that we want to generate a
.\"O compressed filesystem out of.
.I directory
はディレクトリツリーのルートであり、そこから圧縮ファイルシステムを
作成する。
.PP
.\"O The
.\"O .I file
.\"O will contain the cram file system, which later can be mounted.
.I file
は cram ファイルシステムを格納するファイルであり、
これを後からマウントできる。
.\"O .SH OPTIONS
.SH オプション
.TP
\fB\-v\fR
.\"O Enable verbose messaging.
詳細なメッセージを有効化する。
.TP
\fB\-E\fR
.\"O Treat all warnings as errors, which are reflected as command exit status.
全ての警告をエラーとして扱う。これはコマンドの返り値に反映される。
.TP
\fB\-b\fR \fIblocksize\fR
.\"O Use defined block size, which has to be divisible by page size.
指定したブロックサイズを使う。
ブロックサイズはページサイズで割りきれる必要がある。
.TP
\fB\-e\fR \fIedition\fR
.\"O Use defined file system edition number in superblock.
指定したファイルシステムエディション番号をスーパーブロックで使う。
.TP
\fB\-N\fR \fIbig, little, host\fR
.\"O Use defined endianness.  Value defaults to
.\"O .IR host .
指定したエンディアンを使う。
デフォルト値は
.I host
である。
.TP
\fB\-i\fR \fIfile\fR
.\"O Insert a
.\"O .I file
.\"O to cramfs file system.
.I file
を cramfs ファイルシステムに挿入する。
.TP
\fB\-n\fR \fIname\fR
.\"O Set name of the cramfs file system.
cramfs ファイルシステムの名前を設定する。
.TP
\fB\-p\fR
.\"O Pad by 512 bytes for boot code.
ブートコード用に 512 バイトを埋め込む。
.TP
\fB\-s\fR
.\"O This option is ignored.  Originally the \-s turned on directory entry
.\"O sorting.
このオプションは無視される。
元々 \-s オプションは、ディレクトリエントリのソートを有効にしていた。
.TP
\fB\-z\fR
.\"O Make explicit holes.
明示的なホールを作成する。
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
.\"O Display help text and exit.
ヘルプを表示して、終了する。
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
.\"O Display version information and exit.
バージョン情報を表示して、終了する。
.\"O .SH EXIT STATUS
.SH 返り値
.RS
.PD 0
.TP
.B 0
.\"O success
成功
.TP
.B 8
.\"O operation error, such as unable to allocate memory
メモリの確保ができなかったといった、操作エラー。
.PD
.RE
.\"O .SH SEE ALSO
.SH 関連項目
.BR fsck.cramfs (8),
.BR mount (8)
.\"O .SH AVAILABILITY
.SH 入手方法
.\"O The mkfs.cramfs command is part of the util-linux package and is available from
.\"O .UR https://\:www.kernel.org\:/pub\:/linux\:/utils\:/util-linux/
.\"O Linux Kernel Archive
.\"O .UE .
mkfs.cramfs コマンドは util-linux パッケージの一部であり、
.UR https://\:www.kernel.org\:/pub\:/linux\:/utils\:/util-linux/
Linux Kernel Archive
.UE
から入手できる。
