.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This manual page is a part of util-linux.
.\"
.\" Japanese Version Copyright (c) 1997-1998 NAKANO Takeo all rights reserved.
.\" Translated Thu Aug 28 1997 by NAKANO Takeo <nakano@apm.seikei.ac.jp>
.\" Modified & Updated Wed Jun 24 1998 by NAKANO Takeo
.\" Updated & Modified Thu Oct 7 1999 by NAKANO Takeo
.\" Updated & Modified Mon Mar 23 02:00:36 JST 2020
.\"         by Yuichi SATO <ysato444@ybb.ne.jp>
.\" Updated & Modified Wed Feb  3 21:51:46 JST 2021 by Yuichi SATO
.\"
.TH MKFS 8 "June 2011" "util-linux" "System Administration"
.\"O .SH NAME
.SH 名前
.\"O mkfs \- build a Linux filesystem
mkfs \- Linux のファイルシステムを構築する
.\"O .SH SYNOPSIS
.SH 書式
.B mkfs
[options]
.RB [ \-t
.IR type "] [" fs-options ] " device " [ size ]
.\"O .SH DESCRIPTION
.SH 説明
.\"O .B This mkfs frontend is deprecated in favour of filesystem specific mkfs.<type> utils.
.B この mkfs フロントエンドは廃れており、ファイルシステム固有の mkfs.<type>
.B ユーティリティが支持されている。
.PP
.\"O .B mkfs
.\"O is used to build a Linux filesystem on a device, usually
.\"O a hard disk partition.  The
.\"O .I device
.\"O argument is either the device name (e.g.,
.\"O .IR /dev/hda1 ,
.\"O .IR /dev/sdb2 ),
.\"O or a regular file that shall contain the filesystem.  The
.\"O .I size
.\"O argument is the number of blocks to be used for the filesystem.
.B mkfs
は Linux のファイルシステムをデバイス (通常はハードディスクのパーティ
ション) 上に構築するために用いられる。
.I device
引き数はファイルシステムを作成するデバイスの名前
.RI ( /dev/hda1 ", " /dev/sdb2
など)、またはファイルシステムを含む通常ファイルである。
.I size
は作成するファイルシステムのブロック数である。
.PP
.\"O The exit status returned by
.\"O .B mkfs
.\"O is 0 on success and 1 on failure.
.B mkfs
の返り値は成功すれば 0、失敗した場合は 1 である。
.PP
.\"O In actuality,
.\"O .B mkfs
.\"O is simply a front-end for the various filesystem builders
.\"O (\fBmkfs.\fIfstype\fR)
.\"O available under Linux.
実際は
.B mkfs
は単なるフロントエンドにすぎない。 Linux で利用できるファイルシステム
には様々なものがあるが、実際のファイルシステムの作成はそれらファイル
システムに専用のプログラム
(\fBmkfs.\fIfstype\fR)
が行う。
.\"O The filesystem-specific builder is searched for via your PATH
.\"O environment setting only.
.\"O Please see the filesystem-specific builder manual pages for
.\"O further details.
各ファイルシステム用の作成プログラムの探索は、
PATH 環境変数の設定でのみ行われる。
詳細については各ファイルシステム用作成プログラムの
マニュアルページを見てほしい。
.\"O .SH OPTIONS
.SH オプション
.TP
.BR \-t , " \-\-type " \fItype\fR
.\"O Specify the \fItype\fR of filesystem to be built.
.\"O If not specified, the default filesystem type
.\"O (currently ext2) is used.
作成するファイルシステムのタイプ \fItype\fR を指定する。
指定されなかった場合は、
デフォルトのファイルシステムタイプ (現在は ext2) が用いられる。
.TP
.I fs-options
.\"O Filesystem-specific options to be passed to the real filesystem builder.
実際のファイルシステム作成を行うコマンドに渡す、ファイルシステム
固有のオプションを指定する。
.TP
.BR \-V , " \-\-verbose"
.\"O Produce verbose output, including all filesystem-specific commands
.\"O that are executed.
.\"O Specifying this option more than once inhibits execution of any
.\"O filesystem-specific commands.
.\"O This is really only useful for testing.
実行されるファイルシステム固有の全てのコマンドを含む、詳細な出力を行う。
このオプションを 2 回以上指定すると、
ファイルシステム固有のコマンドの実行を行わない。
これは、テストのために本当に便利である。
.TP
.BR \-V , " \-\-version"
.\"O Display version information and exit.  (Option \fB\-V\fR will display
.\"O version information only when it is the only parameter, otherwise it
.\"O will work as \fB\-\-verbose\fR.)
バージョン情報を表示して、終了する。
(オプション \fB\-V\fR は単独の引き数として指定された場合、
バージョン情報を表示する。
他の引き数が指定された場合、
\fB\-\-verbose\fR として動作する。)
.TP
.BR \-h , " \-\-help"
.\"O Display help text and exit.
ヘルプを表示して、終了する。
.\"O .SH BUGS
.SH バグ
.\"O All generic options must precede and not be combined with
.\"O filesystem-specific options.
.\"O Some filesystem-specific programs do not automatically
.\"O detect the device size and require the
.\"O .I size
.\"O parameter to be specified.
mkfs の全ての汎用オプションは、ファイルシステム固有のオプションに
優先すべきである。
専用プログラムには、自動的にデバイスのサイズを知ることができず、
.I size
パラメータを必ず指定しなければならないものもある。
.\"O .SH AUTHORS
.SH 著者
David Engel (david@ods.com)
.br
Fred N.\& van Kempen (waltje@uwalt.nl.mugnet.org)
.br
Ron Sommeling (sommel@sci.kun.nl)
.br
.\"O The manual page was shamelessly adapted from Remy Card's version
.\"O for the ext2 filesystem.
本マニュアルページは (厚顔にも) Remy Card が作成した ext2 ファイル
システム向けの版を少々変更したものである。
.\"O .SH SEE ALSO
.SH 関連情報
.na
.BR fs (5),
.BR badblocks (8),
.BR fsck (8),
.BR mkdosfs (8),
.BR mke2fs (8),
.BR mkfs.bfs (8),
.BR mkfs.ext2 (8),
.BR mkfs.ext3 (8),
.BR mkfs.ext4 (8),
.BR mkfs.minix (8),
.BR mkfs.msdos (8),
.BR mkfs.vfat (8),
.BR mkfs.xfs (8)
.ad
.\"O .SH AVAILABILITY
.SH 入手方法
.\"O The mkfs command is part of the util-linux package and is available from
.\"O https://www.kernel.org/pub/linux/utils/util-linux/.
mkfs コマンドは util-linux パッケージの一部であり、
https://www.kernel.org/pub/linux/utils/util-linux/
から入手できる。
