.\" Copyright (c) 1996-2004 Andries Brouwer
.\" Copyright (C) 2006-2012 Karel Zak <kzak@redhat.com>
.\"
.\" This page is somewhat derived from a page that was
.\" (c) 1980, 1989, 1991 The Regents of the University of California
.\" and had been heavily modified by Rik Faith and myself.
.\" (Probably no BSD text remains.)
.\" Fragments of text were written by Werner Almesberger, Remy Card,
.\" Stephen Tweedie and Eric Youngdale.
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
.\" with this program; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc.,
.\" 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301 USA.
.\"
.\" Japanese Version Copyright (c) 1997-1999 NAKANO Takeo all rights reserved.
.\" Translated Thu Aug 19 1997 by NAKANO Takeo <nakano@apm.seikei.ac.jp>
.\" Updated & Modified Wed Jun 24 1998 by NAKANO Takeo 
.\" Updated & Modified Tue Nov 24 1998 by NAKANO Takeo 
.\" Updated & Modified Thu Oct 14 1999 by NAKANO Takeo 
.\" Updated & Modified Sat 18 Mar 2000 by NAKANO Takeo
.\" Updated & Modified Wed 14 Jun 2000 by NAKANO Takeo 
.\" Updated & Modified Tue Jan  9 04:40:47 JST 2001
.\"      by Yuichi SATO <ysato444@yahoo.co.jp>
.\" Updated & Modified Mon Mar 26 18:21:20 JST 2001 by Yuichi SATO
.\" Updated Tue Jun 19 05:29:02 JST 2001
.\"      by Kentaro Shirakata <argrath@ub32.org>
.\" Updated & Modified Fri Jul 20 03:38:20 JST 2001 by Yuichi SATO
.\" Updated & Modified Mon Sep  3 01:15:41 JST 2001 by Yuichi SATO
.\" Updated & Modified Sat Nov 17 15:30:38 JST 2001 by Yuichi SATO
.\" Updated & Modified Fri Jan 25 06:07:34 JST 2002 by Yuichi SATO
.\" Updated & Modified Sun Mar 24 13:53:03 JST 2002 by Yuichi SATO
.\" Updated & Modified Thu Aug 29 04:38:46 JST 2002 by Yuichi SATO
.\" Updated & Modified Fri Mar 21 04:13:41 JST 2003 by Yuichi SATO
.\" Updated & Modified Sun May  2 12:22:24 JST 2004 by Yuichi SATO
.\" Updated & Modified Mon May  9 02:52:10 JST 2005 by Yuichi SATO
.\" Updated & Modified Wed Apr  1 02:56:08 JST 2020
.\"      by Yuichi SATO <ysato444@ybb.ne.jp>
.\" Updated & Modified Sat Feb  6 21:34:17 JST 2021 by Yuichi SATO
.\"
.\"WORD:	character set		文字セット
.\"
.TH MOUNT 8 "August 2015" "util-linux" "System Administration"
.\"O .SH NAME
.SH 名前
.\"O mount \- mount a filesystem
mount \- ファイルシステムをマウントする
.\"O .SH SYNOPSIS
.SH 書式
.B mount
.RB [ \-h | \-V ]
.LP
.B mount
.RB [ \-l ]
.RB [ \-t
.IR fstype ]
.LP
.B mount \-a
.RB [ \-fFnrsvw ]
.RB [ \-t
.IR fstype ]
.RB [ \-O
.IR optlist ]
.LP
.B mount
.RB [ \-fnrsvw ]
.RB [ \-o
.IR options ]
.IR device | mountpoint
.LP
.B mount
.RB [ \-fnrsvw ]
.RB [ \-t
.IB fstype ]
.RB [ \-o
.IR options ]
.I device mountpoint
.LP
.B mount
.BR \-\-bind | \-\-rbind | \-\-move
.I olddir newdir
.LP
.B mount
.BR \-\-make\- { shared | slave | private | unbindable | rshared | \
rslave | rprivate | runbindable }
.I mountpoint
.\"O .SH DESCRIPTION
.SH 説明
.\"O All files accessible in a Unix system are arranged in one big
.\"O tree, the file hierarchy, rooted at
.\"O .IR / .
.\"O These files can be spread out over several devices.  The
.\"O .B mount
.\"O command serves to attach the filesystem found on some device
.\"O to the big file tree.  Conversely, the
.\"O .BR umount (8)
.\"O command will detach it again.  The filesystem is used to control how data is
.\"O stored on the device or provided in a virtual way by network or other services.
Unix のシステムにおいては、アクセスできるファイルはすべて 1 つの大きな
ツリー構造にまとめられている。
これは
.I /
をルート (root:根) とする階層構造をなしている。
これらのファイル群は複数のデバイスにわたって配置することができる。
.B mount
コマンドはあるデバイス上のファイルシステムを
この大きなツリー構造に接続するために用いられる。
逆に接続を解除する際には
.BR umount (8)
コマンドが用いられる。
ファイルシステムは、データをどのようにデバイスに格納するかを
制御するために使われる。
また、ネットワークや他のサービスで仮想的な方法で提供するかを
制御するために使われる。

.\"O The standard form of the
.\"O .B mount
.\"O command is:
.B mount
コマンドの標準形は次の通りである:
.RS

.BI "mount \-t" " type device dir"

.RE
.\"O This tells the kernel to attach the filesystem found on
.\"O .I device
.\"O (which is of type
.\"O .IR type )
.\"O at the directory
.\"O .IR dir .
これは
.I device
上にあるファイルシステム (タイプ
.IR type )
をディレクトリ
.IR dir
に接続するよう、カーネルに伝える。
.\"O The option \fB\-t \fItype\fR is optional.  The
.\"O .B mount
.\"O command is usually able to detect a filesystem.  The root permissions are necessary
.\"O to mount a filesystem by default.  See section "Non-superuser mounts" below for more details.
\fB\-t \fItype\fR は、オプションである。
.B mount
コマンドは通常はファイルシステムを検知できる。
デフォルトでは、ファイルシステムをマウントするには、root 権限が必要である。
詳細は「スーパーユーザー以外でのマウント」のセクションを参照すること。
.\"O The previous contents (if any) and owner and mode of
.\"O .I dir
.\"O become invisible, and as long as this filesystem remains mounted,
.\"O the pathname
.\"O .I dir
.\"O refers to the root of the filesystem on
.\"O .IR device .
このファイルシステムがマウントされている間は、ディレクトリ
.I dir
のもとの中身 (もしあれば)、ディレクトリ自身の所有者、
パーミッションモードは見えなくなる。
.I dir
によって指定されるパスは
.IR device
上のファイルシステムのルートを参照することになる。

.\"O If only the directory or the device is given, for example:
ディレクトリまたはデバイスのみが指定された場合、以下のようになる:
.RS
.sp
.B mount /dir
.sp
.RE
.\"O then \fBmount\fR looks for a mountpoint (and if not found then for a device) in the
.\"O .I /etc/fstab
.\"O file.  It's possible to use the
.\"O .B \-\-target
.\"O or
.\"O .B \-\-source
.\"O options to avoid ambiguous interpretation of the given argument.
.\"O For example:
\fBmount\fR は
.I /etc/fstab
ファイルのマウントポイントを調べる (なければ、デバイスを調べる)。
.B \-\-target
または
.B \-\-source
オプションを使って指定した引き数が曖昧になるのを防ぐことができる。
例えば:
.RS
.sp
.B mount \-\-target /mountpoint
.sp
.RE

.\"O The same filesystem may be mounted more than once, and in some cases (e.g.,
.\"O network filesystems) the same filesystem may be mounted on the same
.\"O mountpoint multiple times. The
.\"O .B mount
.\"O command does not implement any policy to
.\"O control this behavior. All behavior is controlled by the kernel and it is usually
.\"O specific to the filesystem driver. The exception is \fB\-\-all\fR, in this case
.\"O already mounted filesystems are ignored (see \fB\-\-all\fR below for more details).
同じファイルシステムを複数回マウントできる。
同様なケースで (例えばネットワークファイルシステムで) 同じファイルシステムを
同じマウントポイントで複数回マウントできる。
.B mount
コマンドはこの挙動を制御するポリシーを実装していない。
全ての挙動はカーネルで制御され、通常はファイルシステムドライバの仕様である。
例外は、\fB\-\-all\fR であり、このオプションが指定された場合、
既にマウントされているファイルシステムは無視される
(詳細は以下の \fB\-\-all\fR を参照すること)。

.\"O .SS Listing the mounts
.SS マウントのリスト表示
.\"O The listing mode is maintained for backward compatibility only.
リスト表示モードは後方互換のためにのみ維持されている。

.\"O For more robust and customizable output use
.\"O .BR findmnt (8),
.\"O \fBespecially in your scripts\fP.  Note that control characters in the
.\"O mountpoint name are replaced with '?'.
\fB特にスクリプトにおいては\fP、より強力でカスタマイズ可能な出力には、
.BR findmnt (8)
を使うこと。
マウントポイント名に含まれる制御文字は、'?' に置換される点に注意すること。

.\"O The following command lists all mounted filesystems (of type
.\"O .IR type ):
以下のコマンドでは、(タイプ
.I type
の) 全てのマウントされたファイルシステムのリストを表示する:
.RS
.sp
.BR "mount " [ \-l "] [" "\-t \fItype\/\fP" ]
.sp
.RE
.\"O The option \fB\-l\fR adds labels to this listing.  See below.
オプション \fB\-l\fR を付けると、ラベルをリストに追加する。
下記を参照すること。

.\"O .SS Indicating the device and filesystem
.SS デバイスとファイルシステムの指定
.\"O Most devices are indicated by a filename (of a block special device), like
.\"O .IR /dev/sda1 ,
.\"O but there are other possibilities.  For example, in the case of an NFS mount,
.\"O .I device
.\"O may look like
.\"O .IR knuth.cwi.nl:/dir .
ほとんどの場合、デバイスは (ブロックスペシャルデバイスの) ファイル名で
指定する (例:
.IR /dev/sda1 )。
しかし例外もある。例えば NFS を通してマウントする場合には、
.I device
は
.IR knuth.cwi.nl:/dir
のようになる。
.PP
.\"O The device names of disk partitions are unstable; hardware reconfiguration,
.\"O and adding or removing a device can cause changes in names.
.\"O This is the reason why it's
.\"O strongly recommended to use filesystem or partition identifiers like UUID or
.\"O LABEL. Currently supported identifiers (tags):
ディスクパーティションのデバイス名は不安定である。
ハードウェアの認識でデバイスの追加や削除を行った場合、
名前が変わる可能性がある。
これが、ファイルシステムやパーティションの識別子に、
UUID やラベルを使うのを強く推奨する理由である。
現在サポートされている識別子 (タグ) は、以下の通りである:
.RS
.TP
LABEL=\fIlabel\fR
.\"O Human readable filesystem identifier. See also \fB\-L\fR.
人が読み易いファイルシステム識別子。
\fB\-L\fR を参照すること。
.TP
UUID=\fIuuid\fR
.\"O Filesystem universally unique identifier. The format of the UUID is usually a
.\"O series of hex digits separated by hyphens. See also \fB\-U\fR.
ファイルシステムの universally unique identifier
(汎システム的に他とは重ならない識別子)。
UUID の形式は、ハイフンで区切られた一連の 16 進数である。
\fB\-U\fR を参照すること。
.sp
.\"O Note that
.\"O .BR mount (8)
.\"O uses UUIDs as strings.  The UUIDs from the command line or from
.\"O .BR fstab (5)
.\"O are not converted to internal binary representation.  The string representation
.\"O of the UUID should be based on lower case characters.
.BR mount (8)
は UUID を文字列として使っている点に注意すること。
コマンドライン、または
.BR fstab (5)
から指定された UUID は内部的なバイナリ表現に変換されない。
UUID の文字列表現は、小文字になる。
.TP
PARTLABEL=\fIlabel\fR
.\"O Human readable partition identifier.  This identifier is independent on
.\"O filesystem and does not change by mkfs or mkswap operations It's supported
.\"O for example for GUID Partition Tables (GPT).
人が読み易いパーティション識別子。
この識別子は、ファイルシステムには依存せず、
mkfs や mkswap の操作で変更されない。
これは、例えば、GUID パーティションテーブル (GPT) でサポートされている。
.TP
PARTUUID=\fIuuid\fR
.\"O Partition universally unique identifier.  This identifier is independent on
.\"O filesystem and does not change by mkfs or mkswap operations  It's supported
.\"O for example for GUID Partition Tables (GPT).
パーティション UUID。
この識別子は、ファイルシステムには依存せず、
mkfs や mkswap の操作で変更されない。
これは、例えば、GUID パーティションテーブル (GPT) でサポートされている。
.TP
ID=\fIid\fR
.\"O Hardware block device ID as generated by udevd.  This identifier is usually
.\"O based on WWN (unique storage identifier) and assigned by the hardware
.\"O manufacturer.  See \fBls /dev/disk/by-id\fR for more details, this directory
.\"O and running udevd is required.  This identifier is not recommended for generic
.\"O use as the identifier is not strictly defined and it depends on udev, udev rules
.\"O and hardware.
udevd によって生成されたハードウェアブロックデバイス ID。
この識別子は、通常 WWN (一意なストレージ識別子) に基づいており、
ハードウェアの製造者によって割り当てられている。
より詳細は、\fBls /dev/disk/by-id\fR を参照すること。
このディレクトリと、udevd が実行さている必要がある。
この識別子は厳密に定義されてはおらず、udev、udev の規則、ハードウェアに依存しているため、
この識別子を一般的に使用するのは推奨されない。
.RE
.sp
.\"O The command \fBlsblk \-\-fs\fR provides an overview of filesystems, LABELs and UUIDs
.\"O on available block devices.  The command \fBblkid \-p <device>\fR provides details about
.\"O a filesystem on the specified device.
コマンド \fBlsblk \-\-fs\fR は、利用可能なブロックデバイスの
ファイルシステム、ラベル、UUID の概要を表示する。
コマンド \fBblkid \-p <device>\fR は、
指定されたデバイス上のファイルシステムの詳細を表示する。

.\"O Don't forget that there is no guarantee that UUIDs and labels are really
.\"O unique, especially if you move, share or copy the device.  Use
.\"O .B "lsblk \-o +UUID,PARTUUID"
.\"O to verify that the UUIDs are really unique in your system.
デバイスを移動、共有、コピーする場合、
UUID とラベルが実際に一意である保証がないことを忘れてはいけない。
システム上で UUID が実際に一意であるかを検証するには、
.B "lsblk \-o +UUID,PARTUUID"
を使うこと。

.\"O The recommended setup is to use tags (e.g.\& \fBUUID=\fIuuid\fR) rather than
.\"O .I /dev/disk/by-{label,uuid,id,partuuid,partlabel}
.\"O udev symlinks in the
.\"O .I /etc/fstab
.\"O file.  Tags are
.\"O more readable, robust and portable.  The
.\"O .BR mount (8)
.\"O command internally uses udev
.\"O symlinks, so the use of symlinks in
.\"O .I /etc/fstab
.\"O has no advantage over tags.
.\"O For more details see
.\"O .BR libblkid (3).
.I /etc/fstab
ファイルでは、
.I /dev/disk/by-{label,uuid,id,partuuid,partlabel}
udev シンボリックリンクより、
タグ (例えば\& \fBUUID=\fIuuid\fR) を使った設定が推奨される。
タグは、より読みやすく、堅牢で、移植性が高い。
.BR mount (8)
は内部的に udev シンボリックリンクを使っているので、
.I /etc/fstab
でシンボリックリンクを使うのは、タグを使うのに比べて、
何の利点もない。
より詳細は
.BR libblkid (3)
を参照すること。

.\"O The
.\"O .I proc
.\"O filesystem is not associated with a special device, and when
.\"O mounting it, an arbitrary keyword\(emfor example,
.\"O .IR proc \(emcan
.\"O be used instead of a device specification.
.\"O (The customary choice
.\"O .I none
.\"O is less fortunate: the error message `none already mounted' from
.\"O .B mount
.\"O can be confusing.)
.I proc
ファイルシステムはスペシャルデバイスには関連付けられていないので、
マウントする際には\(em
.IR proc \(em
のような適当なキーワードをデバイス指定の代わりに用いる。
(通常用いられている
.I none
はあまりお勧めできない:
.B mount
が `none already mounted' というエラーメッセージを出すことになるので、
混乱の原因となりかねない。)

.\"O .SS The files /etc/fstab, /etc/mtab and /proc/mounts
.SS ファイル /etc/fstab, /etc/mtab, /proc/mounts
.\"O The file
.\"O .I /etc/fstab
.\"O (see
.\"O .BR fstab (5)),
.\"O may contain lines describing what devices are usually
.\"O mounted where, using which options. This file is used in three ways:
.\"O mounted where, using which options.  The default location of the
.\"O .BR fstab (5)
.\"O file can be overridden with the
.\"O .BI \-\-fstab " path"
.\"O command-line option (see below for more details).
ファイル
.I /etc/fstab
.RB ( fstab (5)
を見よ) は、それぞれのデバイスが通常マウントされる場所を、
オプションとともに記述したものである。
.BR fstab (5)
ファイルのデフォルトの場所は、
.BI \-\-fstab " path"
コマンドラインオプションで上書きできる
(より詳細は下記を参照すること)。
.LP
.\"O The command
コマンド
.RS
.sp
.B mount \-a
.RB [ \-t
.IR type ]
.RB [ \-O
.IR optlist ]
.sp
.RE
.\"O (usually given in a bootscript) causes all filesystems mentioned in
.\"O .I fstab
.\"O (of the proper type and/or having or not having the proper options)
.\"O to be mounted as indicated, except for those whose line contains the
.\"O .B noauto
.\"O keyword.  Adding the
.\"O .B \-F
.\"O option will make \fBmount\fR fork, so that the
.\"O filesystems are mounted in parallel.
が (通常は起動スクリプトから) 実行されると、
.I fstab
に記述されているすべてのファイルシステムが
(適当なオプションの有無に関わらず、それぞれ適当なタイプで) マウントされる。
ただしキーワード
.B noauto
を含む行はマウントされない。
.B \-F
オプションを指定すると \fBmount\fR は fork し、
それぞれのファイルシステムが同時にマウントされる。
.LP
.\"O When mounting a filesystem mentioned in
.\"O .I fstab
.\"O or
.\"O .IR mtab ,
.\"O it suffices to specify on the command line only the device, or only the mount point.
.I fstab
または
.I mtab
で指定されたファイルシステムをマウントする場合、
コマンドラインにはデバイス、またはマウントポイントを指定すれば充分である。
.sp
.\"O The programs
.\"O .B mount
.\"O and
.\"O .B umount
.\"O traditionally maintained a list of currently mounted filesystems in the file
.\"O .IR /etc/mtab .
プログラム
.B mount
と
.B umount
は、現在マウントされているファイルシステムをファイル
.I /etc/mtab
で昔から管理している。
.\"O The support for regular classic
.\"O .I /etc/mtab
.\"O is completely disabled at compile time by default, because on current Linux
.\"O systems it is better to make
.\"O .I /etc/mtab
.\"O a symlink to
.\"O .I /proc/mounts
.\"O instead. The regular
.\"O .I mtab
.\"O file maintained in userspace cannot reliably
.\"O work with namespaces, containers and other advanced Linux features.
.\"O If the regular
.\"O .I mtab
.\"O support is enabled, then it's possible to
伝統的な通常の
.I /etc/mtab
のサポートはコンパイル時にデフォルトで完全に無効化できる。
なぜなら、現在の Linux システムでは、代わりに
.I /etc/mtab
を
.I /proc/mounts
へのシンボリックリンクにする方が良いからである。
ユーザ空間で管理されている通常の
.I mtab
ファイルは、
名前空間、コンテナ、その他の先進的な Linux 機能とともに使う場合には、
信頼性を持って動作できない。
通常の
.I mtab
のサポートが有効である場合、
ファイルもシンボリックリンクと同様に使うことができる。
.sp
.\"O If no arguments are given to
.\"O .BR mount ,
.\"O the list of mounted filesystems is printed.
.B mount
に引き数を何も指定しない場合、
マウントされているファイルシステムが表示される。
.sp
.\"O If you want to override mount options from
.\"O .IR /etc/fstab ,
.\"O you have to use the \fB\-o\fR option:
.I /etc/fstab
で指定されているマウントオプションを上書きしたい場合、
\fB\-o\fR を使う必要がある:
.RS
.sp
.BI mount " device" \fR| "dir " \-o " options"
.sp
.RE
.\"O and then the mount options from the command line will be appended to
.\"O the list of options from
.\"O .IR /etc/fstab .
.\"O This default behaviour can be changed using the
.\"O \fB\-\-options\-mode\fR
.\"O command-line option.
.\"O The usual behavior is that the last option wins if there are conflicting
.\"O ones.
コマンドラインで指定されたマウントオプションは、
.I /etc/fstab
で指定されたオプションのリストに追加される。
このデフォルトの動作は、コマンドラインオプション
\fB\-\-options\-mode\fR で変更できる。
通常の挙動では、衝突するオプションがある場合、最後のオプションが勝つ。
.sp
.\"O The
.\"O .B mount
.\"O program does not read the
.\"O .I /etc/fstab
.\"O file if both
.\"O .I device
.\"O (or LABEL, UUID, ID, PARTUUID or PARTLABEL) and
.\"O .I dir
.\"O are specified.  For example, to mount device
.\"O .BR foo " at " /dir :
.I device
(または LABEL, UUID, ID, PARTUUID, PARTLABEL) と
.I dir
の両方が指定された場合、
.B mount
プログラムは
.I /etc/fstab
ファイルを読み込まない。
例えば、デバイス
.BR foo " を " /dir
にマウントする場合、以下のように指定する:
.RS
.sp
.B "mount /dev/foo /dir"
.sp
.RE
.\"O This default behaviour can be changed by using the
.\"O \fB\-\-options\-source\-force\fR command-line option
.\"O to always read configuration from
.\"O .IR fstab .
.\"O For non-root users
.\"O .B mount
.\"O always reads the
.\"O .I fstab
.\"O configuration.
このデフォルトの挙動は、コマンドラインオプション
\fB\-\-options\-source\-force\fR
で変更し、fstab から設定を読み込ませることができる。
ルート以外のユーザーでは、
.B mount
は常に
.I fstab
の設定を読み込む。

.\"O .SS Non-superuser mounts
.SS スーパーユーザー以外でのマウント
.\"O Normally, only the superuser can mount filesystems.
.\"O However, when
.\"O .I fstab
.\"O contains the
.\"O .B user
.\"O option on a line, anybody can mount the corresponding filesystem.
通常はスーパーユーザーのみがマウントを行うことができるが、
.I fstab
中の行に
.B user
オプションが含まれていれば、その行で指定されているファイルシステムは
誰でもマウントすることができる。
.LP
.\"O Thus, given a line
したがって
.RS
.sp
.B "/dev/cdrom  /cd  iso9660  ro,user,noauto,unhide"
.sp
.RE
.\"O any user can mount the iso9660 filesystem found on an inserted CDROM
.\"O using the command:
という行があれば、誰でも挿入された CDROM 上の iso9660 ファイルシステムを
.RS
.B "mount /cd"
.sp
.RE
によってマウントできる。
.\"O Note that \fBmount\fR is very strict about non-root users and all paths
.\"O specified on command line are verified before
.\"O .I fstab
.\"O is parsed or a helper
.\"O program is executed. It's strongly recommended to use a valid mountpoint to
.\"O specify filesystem, otherwise \fBmount\fR may fail. For example it's a bad idea
.\"O to use NFS or CIFS source on command line.
\fBmount\fR は root 以外のユーザーにはとても厳格で、
.I fstab
が解析されたり、ヘルパープログラムが実行される前に、
コマンドラインで指定された全てのパスが検証される。
ファイルシステムを指定するために、有効なマウントポイントを使うことが
強く推奨される。
さもないと、\fBmount\fR は失敗する。
例えば、NFS や CIFS のマウント元をコマンドラインから指定するのは、
良くない考えである。
.PP
.\"O Since util-linux 2.35, \fBmount\fR does not exit when user permissions are
.\"O inadequate according to libmount's internal security rules.
util-linux 2.35 以降では、ユーザーの権限 (パーミッション) が
libmount の内部セキュリティルールに基づいて不十分な場合でも、
\fBmount\fR は終了しない。
.\"O Instead, it drops suid permissions
.\"O and continues as regular non-root user. This behavior supports use-cases where
.\"O root permissions are not necessary (e.g., fuse filesystems, user namespaces,
.\"O etc).
代わりに、suid 権限を落として、非 root ユーザーとして継続する。
この挙動は、root 権限が必要ない場合
(例えば、fuse ファイルシステム、ユーザー名前空間など) をサポートしている。
.PP
.\"O For more details, see
.\"O .BR fstab (5).
.\"O Only the user that mounted a filesystem can unmount it again.
.\"O If any user should be able to unmount it, then use
.\"O .B users
.\"O instead of
.\"O .B user
.\"O in the
.\"O .I fstab
.\"O line.
詳細は
.BR fstab (5)
を参照のこと。
ファイルシステムをマウントしたユーザーだけが、
それをアンマウントすることができる。
他のユーザーでもアンマウントを行えるようにしたい場合は、
.I fstab
の行の指定を
.B user
の代わりに
.B users
とすること。
.\"O The
.\"O .B owner
.\"O option is similar to the
.\"O .B user
.\"O option, with the restriction that the user must be the owner
.\"O of the special file.  This may be useful e.g.\& for
.\"O .I /dev/fd
.\"O if a login script makes the console user owner of this device.
.B owner
オプションは
.B user
オプションと似ているが、ユーザーがそのスペシャルファイルの
所有者でなければならないという制限がある。
これはたとえばログインスクリプトがコンソールのユーザーを
.I /dev/fd
の所有者にする場合、このデバイスに用いると便利だろう。
.\"O The
.\"O .B group
.\"O option is similar, with the restriction that the user must be a
.\"O member of the group of the special file.
.B group
オプションは (訳註:
.B user
オプションと) 似ているが、ユーザーがそのスペシャルファイルの
グループのメンバでなければならないという制限がある。

.\"O .SS Bind mount operation
.SS bind マウント操作
.\"O Remount part of the file hierarchy somewhere else.  The call is:
ファイル階層の一部をどこか別の場所に再マウントすることができる。
使い方は以下の通りである:

.RS
.br
.B mount \-\-bind
.I olddir newdir
.RE

.\"O or by using this
.\"O .I fstab
.\"O entry:
もしくは、
.I fstab
エントリで、このオプションを使う:

.RS
.br
.BI / olddir
.BI / newdir
.B none bind
.RE

.\"O After this call the same contents are accessible in two places.
この呼び出しの後、同じ内容を 2 つの場所でアクセスできる。

.\"O It is important to understand that "bind" does not create any second-class
.\"O or special node in the kernel VFS. The "bind" is just another operation to
.\"O attach a filesystem. There is nowhere stored information that the filesystem
.\"O has been attached by a "bind" operation. The \fIolddir\fR and \fInewdir\fR are
.\"O independent and the \fIolddir\fR may be unmounted.
"bind" がカーネル VFS にセカンドクラスまたはスペシャルノードを
作成しないという点を理解することが重要である。
"bind" は、単にファイルシステムをアタッチする別の操作である。
"bind" 操作でアタッチされたファイルシステムの情報を格納する場所はない。
\fIolddir\fR と \fInewdir\fR は独立であり、
\fIolddir\fR はアンマウントできる。

.\"O One can also remount a single file (on a single file).  It's also
.\"O possible to use a bind mount to create a mountpoint from a regular
.\"O directory, for example:
1 つのファイル (を 1 つのファイル) に再マウントできる。
bind マウントを使って通常ディレクトリからマウントポイントを作ることができる。
例えば:

.RS
.br
.B mount \-\-bind foo foo
.RE

.\"O The bind mount call attaches only (part of) a single filesystem, not possible
.\"O submounts.  The entire file hierarchy including submounts can be attached
.\"O a second place by using:
bind マウントコールで 1 つのファイルシステム (の一部) のみをアタッチし、
サブマウントはできない。
次のようにして、サブマウントを含む全てのファイル階層は、
2 つ目の場所にアタッチできる:

.RS
.br
.B mount \-\-rbind
.I olddir newdir
.RE

.\"O Note that the filesystem mount options maintained by the kernel will remain the same as those
.\"O on the original mount point.  The userspace mount options (e.g., _netdev) will not be copied
.\"O by
.\"O .B mount
.\"O and it's necessary to explicitly specify the options on the
.\"O .B mount
.\"O command line.
カーネルによって管理されるファイルシステムのマウントオプションは、
元々のマウントポイントのマウントオプションと同じである点に注意すること。
ユーザー空間のマウントオプション (例えば、_netdev) は、
.B mount
によってコピーされず、
.B mount
のコマンドラインオプションで明示的に指定する必要がある。

.\"O Since util-linux 2.27
.\"O .BR mount (8)
.\"O permits changing the mount options by passing the
.\"O relevant options along with
.\"O .BR \-\-bind .
.\"O For example:
util-linux 2.27 以降で
.BR mount (8)
は、関連するオプションを
.B \-\-bind
と一緒に渡すことで、マウントオプションを変更することができる。
例えば:

.RS
.br
.B mount \-o bind,ro foo foo
.RE

.\"O This feature is not supported by the Linux kernel; it is implemented in userspace
.\"O by an additional \fBmount\fR(2) remounting system call.
.\"O This solution is not atomic.
この機能は、Linux カーネルではサポートされておらず、
追加の \fBmount\fR(2) の再マウントシステムコールを発行することで、
ユーザー空間で実装されている。
この方法はアトミックではない。

.\"O The alternative (classic) way to create a read-only bind mount is to use the remount
.\"O operation, for example:
読み込みのみの bind マウントを作成する別の (昔からの) 方法は、
再マウント操作を使うことである。
例えば:

.RS
.br
.B mount \-\-bind
.I olddir newdir
.br
.B mount \-o remount,bind,ro
.I olddir newdir
.RE

.\"O Note that a read-only bind will create a read-only mountpoint (VFS entry),
.\"O but the original filesystem superblock will still be writable, meaning that the
.\"O .I olddir
.\"O will be writable, but the
.\"O .I newdir
.\"O will be read-only.
読み込みのみの bind は読み込みのみのマウントポイント (VFS エントリ) を作成するが、
元々のファイルシステムのスーパーブロックは書き込み可能のままである。
つまり、
.I olddir
は書き込み可能であるが、
.I newdir
は読み込みのみということである。

.\"O It's also possible to change nosuid, nodev, noexec, noatime, nodiratime and
.\"O relatime VFS entry flags via a "remount,bind" operation.
.\"O The other flags (for example
.\"O filesystem-specific flags) are silently ignored.  It's impossible to change mount
.\"O options recursively (for example with \fB\-o rbind,ro\fR).
nosuid, nodev, noexec, noatime, nodiratime, relatime VFS エントリフラグを、
"remount,bind" 操作で変更することができる。
他のフラグ (例えば、ファイルシステム固有のフラグ) は黙って無視される。
マウントオプションを (例えば \fB\-o rbind,ro\fR で) 再帰的に変更することはできない。

.\"O Since util-linux 2.31,
.\"O .B mount
.\"O ignores the \fBbind\fR flag from
.\"O .I /etc/fstab
.\"O on a
.\"O .B remount
.\"O operation
.\"O (if "\-o remount" is specified on command line).
.\"O This is necessary to fully control
.\"O mount options on remount by command line. In previous versions the bind
.\"O flag has been always applied and it was impossible to re-define mount options
.\"O without interaction with the bind semantic. This
.\"O .BR mount (8)
.\"O behavior does not affect situations when "remount,bind" is specified in the
.\"O .I /etc/fstab
.\"O file.
util-linux 2.31 以降で、
.B mount
は、
.B 再マウント
操作時 ("\-o remount" がコマンドラインで指定されている場合) に
.I /etc/fstab
に指定された \fBbind\fR フラグを無視するようになった。
コマンドラインで再マウントをする場合、
マウントオプションを完全に制御する必要がある。
以前のバージョンでは、bind フラグは常に適用され、
bind を操作することなしに、
マウントオプションを再定義することができなかった。
この
.BR mount (8)
の挙動は、"remount,bind" が
.I /etc/fstab
ファイルに指定されている場合に、影響しない。
.\"Osato: semantic が訳出できない。
.RE

.\"O .SS The move operation
.SS move 操作
.\"O Move a
.\"O .B mounted tree
.\"O to another place (atomically).  The call is:
.B マウントされたツリー
を (纏めて) 他の場所に移動することが可能になった。
使い方は以下の通りである:

.RS
.br
.B mount \-\-move
.I olddir newdir
.RE

.\"O This will cause the contents which previously appeared under
.\"O .I olddir
.\"O to now be accessible under
.\"O .IR newdir .
.\"O The physical location of the files is not changed.
.\"O Note that
.\"O .I olddir
.\"O has to be a mountpoint.
これにより、前に
.I olddir
に現れていた内容が、
.I newdir
でアクセスできる。
ファイルの物理的な場所は変更されない。
.I olddir
がマウントポイントになる点に注意すること。

.\"O Note also that moving a mount residing under a shared mount is invalid and
.\"O unsupported.  Use
.\"O .B findmnt \-o TARGET,PROPAGATION
.\"O to see the current propagation flags.
shared マウント以下にあった move マウントオプションは、
無効でありサポートされない。
現在の伝搬されているフラグを見るには、
.B findmnt \-o TARGET,PROPAGATION
を使うこと。

.\"O .SS Shared subtree operations
.SS 共有 (shared) サブツリー操作
.\"O Since Linux 2.6.15 it is possible to mark a mount and its submounts as shared,
.\"O private, slave or unbindable.  A shared mount provides the ability to create mirrors
.\"O of that mount such that mounts and unmounts within any of the mirrors propagate
.\"O to the other mirror.  A slave mount receives propagation from its master, but
.\"O not vice versa.  A private mount carries no propagation abilities.  An
.\"O unbindable mount is a private mount which cannot be cloned through a bind
.\"O operation.  The detailed semantics are documented in
.\"O .I Documentation/filesystems/sharedsubtree.txt
.\"O file in the kernel source tree; see also
.\"O .BR mount_namespaces (7).
Linux 2.6.15 からマウントとサブマウントを
shared, private, slave, unbindable としてマークできる。
共有 (shared) マウントはマウントのミラーを作成するために提供される。
ミラーのマウントとアンマウントは、他のミラーに伝搬 (propagation) される。
スレーブ (slave) マウントはマスターからの伝搬は受けるが、逆の伝搬は受けない。
プライベート (private) マウントは伝搬をさせない。
バインド不可 (unbindable) マウントは bind 操作でクローンされないプライベートマウントである。
詳細な意味は、カーネルソースツリーの
.I Documentation/filesystems/sharedsubtree.txt
ファイルにドキュメント化されている。
.BR mount_namespaces (7)
を参照すること。

.\"O Supported operations are:
サポートされている操作は、以下の通り:

.RS
.nf
.BI "mount \-\-make\-shared " mountpoint
.BI "mount \-\-make\-slave " mountpoint
.BI "mount \-\-make\-private " mountpoint
.BI "mount \-\-make\-unbindable " mountpoint
.fi
.RE

.\"O The following commands allow one to recursively change the type of all the
.\"O mounts under a given mountpoint.
以下のコマンドは、指定されたマウントポイント以下の
全てのマウントのタイプを再帰的に変更する。

.RS
.nf
.BI "mount \-\-make\-rshared " mountpoint
.BI "mount \-\-make\-rslave " mountpoint
.BI "mount \-\-make\-rprivate " mountpoint
.BI "mount \-\-make\-runbindable " mountpoint
.fi
.RE

.\"O .BR mount (8)
.\"O .B does not read
.\"O .BR fstab (5)
.\"O when a \fB\-\-make-\fR* operation is requested.  All necessary information has to be
.\"O specified on the command line.
.BR mount (8)
は、\fB\-\-make-\fR* 操作が要求された場合、
.BR fstab (5)
を読まない。
全ての必要な情報はコマンドラインで指定しなければならない。

.\"O Note that the Linux kernel does not allow changing multiple propagation flags
.\"O with a single
.\"O .BR mount (2)
.\"O system call, and the flags cannot be mixed with other mount options and operations.
Linux カーネルは、1 回の
.BR mount (2)
システムコールで複数の伝搬フラグを変更できない。
そして、このフラグは他のマウントオプションや操作と組み合わせることが
できない。

.\"O Since util-linux 2.23 the \fBmount\fR command can be used to do more propagation
.\"O (topology) changes by one mount(8) call and do it also together with other
.\"O mount operations.  This feature is EXPERIMENTAL.  The propagation flags are applied
.\"O by additional \fBmount\fR(2) system calls when the preceding mount operations
.\"O were successful.  Note that this use case is not atomic.  It is possible to
.\"O specify the propagation flags in
.\"O .BR fstab (5)
.\"O as mount options
.\"O .RB ( private ,
.\"O .BR slave ,
.\"O .BR shared ,
.\"O .BR unbindable ,
.\"O .BR rprivate ,
.\"O .BR rslave ,
.\"O .BR rshared ,
.\"O .BR runbindable ).
util-linux 2.23 以降で \fBmount\fR コマンドは、
1 回の mount(8) 呼び出しで、
より多くの伝搬オプション (トポロジー) 変更が可能で、
他のマウントオプションと一緒に指定できる。
この機能は「実験的」である。
伝搬フラグは、先に呼び出されたマウント操作が成功した場合、
追加の \fBmount\fR(2) システムコールを呼び出すことで適用できる。
この利用方法はアトミックではない点に注意すること。
伝搬フラグを
.BR fstab (5)
でマウントオプション
.RB ( private ,
.BR slave ,
.BR shared ,
.BR unbindable ,
.BR rprivate ,
.BR rslave ,
.BR rshared ,
.BR runbindable )
を指定できる。

.\"O For example:
例:

.RS
.nf
.B mount \-\-make\-private \-\-make\-unbindable /dev/sda1 /foo
.fi
.RE

.\"O is the same as:
は、以下と同じである:

.RS
.nf
.B mount /dev/sda1 /foo
.B mount \-\-make\-private /foo
.B mount \-\-make\-unbindable /foo
.fi
.RE

.\"O .SH COMMAND-LINE OPTIONS
.SH コマンドラインオプション
.\"O The full set of mount options used by an invocation of
.\"O .B mount
.\"O is determined by first extracting the
.\"O mount options for the filesystem from the
.\"O .I fstab
.\"O table, then applying any options specified by the
.\"O .B \-o
.\"O argument, and finally applying a
.\"O .BR \-r " or " \-w
.\"O option, when present.
.B mount
の実行時に用いられるオプションは以下のようにして決定される。
まずそのファイルシステムに特有のオプションが
.I fstab
中の対応する行から抽出される。
次にコマンドラインの
.B \-o
引き数によって指定されたオプション、最後に
.BR \-r " または " \-w
オプションが指定されている場合には、それらが適用される。

.\"O The \fBmount\fR command does not pass all command-line options to the
.\"O \fB/sbin/mount.\fIsuffix\fR mount helpers.  The interface between \fBmount\fR
.\"O and the mount helpers is described below in the section \fBEXTERNAL HELPERS\fR.
\fBmount\fR コマンドは、\fB/sbin/mount.\fIsuffix\fR マウントヘルパーに
全てのオプションを渡すわけではない。
\fBmount\fR とマウントヘルパーのインタフェースは、
以下の\fB外部ヘルパー\fRのセクションで記載されている。
.sp
.\"O Command-line options available for the
.\"O .B mount
.\"O command are:
.B mount
コマンドで利用できるコマンドラインオプションは以下の通り:
.TP
.BR \-a , " \-\-all"
.\"O Mount all filesystems (of the given types) mentioned in
.\"O .I fstab
.\"O (except for those whose line contains the
.\"O .B noauto
.\"O keyword).  The filesystems are mounted following their order in
.\"O .IR fstab .
.I fstab
に記載されている (指定したタイプの) ファイルシステムを
.RB ( noauto
キーワードが含まれている行を除き) すべてマウントする。
ファイルシステムは
.I fstab
の順番に従ってマウントされる。
.\"O The
.\"O .B mount
.\"O command compares filesystem source, target (and fs root for bind
.\"O mount or btrfs) to detect already mounted filesystems. The kernel table with
.\"O already mounted filesystems is cached during \fBmount \-\-all\fR. This means
.\"O that all duplicated
.\"O .I fstab
.\"O entries will be mounted.
.B mount
コマンドは、ファイルシステムのマウント元とマウント先
(加えて、bind マウントまたは btrfs についてはファイルシステムのルート) を比較し、
既にマウントされているファイルシステムを検知する。
既にマウントされているファイルシステムのカーネルテーブルは、
\fBmount \-\-all\fR でキャッシュされる。
これは、複製された
.I fstab
エントリがマウントされるという意味である。
.sp
.\"O The option \fB\-\-all\fR is possible to use for remount operation too. In this
.\"O case all filters (\fB\-t\fR and \fB\-O\fR) are applied to the table of already
.\"O mounted filesystems.
オプション \fB\-\-all\fR は、再マウント操作でも使うことができる。
この場合、全てのフィルタ (\fB\-t\fR と \fB\-O\fR) は、
既にマウントされているファイルシステムのテーブルに適用される。
.sp
.\"O Since version 2.35 is possible to use the command line option \fB\-o\fR to
.\"O alter mount options from
.\"O .I fstab
.\"O (see also \fB\-\-options\-mode\fR).
バージョン 2.35 以降では、コマンドラインオプション \fB\-o\fR を使って、
.I fstab
で指定したマウントオプションを変更できる
(\fB\-\-options\-mode\fR を参照)。
.sp
.\"O Note that it is a bad practice to use \fBmount \-a\fR for
.\"O .I fstab
.\"O checking. The recommended solution is \fBfindmnt \-\-verify\fR.
\fBmount \-a\fR を
.I fstab
のチェックに使うのは、良くない方法である点に注意すること。
推奨される方法は、\fBfindmnt \-\-verify\fR を使うことである。
.TP
.BR \-B , " \-\-bind"
.\"O Remount a subtree somewhere else (so that its contents are available
.\"O in both places).  See above, under \fBBind mounts\fR.
サブツリーをどこか別の場所に再マウントする
(それにより、ファイルシステムの内容は両方の場所で利用可能になる)。
上記の \fBbind マウント\fR を参照すること。
.TP
.BR \-c , " \-\-no\-canonicalize"
.\"O Don't canonicalize paths.  The
.\"O .B mount
.\"O command canonicalizes all paths
.\"O (from the command line or
.\"O .IR fstab )
.\"O by default.  This option can be used
.\"O together with the
.\"O .B \-f
.\"O flag for already canonicalized absolute paths.  The option is designed for mount
.\"O helpers which call \fBmount \-i\fR.  It is strongly recommended to not use this
.\"O command-line option for normal mount operations.
パスを正則化 (canonicalize) しない。
.B mount
コマンドは、全てのパスを (コマンドラインからであっても、
.I fstab
からであっても) デフォルトで正則化する。
このオプションは、正則化した絶対パスに対して、
.B \-f
フラグとともに使うことができる。
このオプションは、\fBmount \-i\fR を呼び出すマウントヘルパーのために、
設計されている。
このコマンドラインオプションを通常のマウント操作として
使わないことを、強く推奨する。
.sp
.\"O Note that \fBmount\fR(8) does not pass this option to the
.\"O \fB/sbin/mount.\fItype\fR helpers.
\fBmount\fR(8) は、このオプションを
\fB/sbin/mount.\fItype\fR ヘルパーに渡さない。
.TP
.BR \-F , " \-\-fork"
.\"O (Used in conjunction with
.\"O .BR \-a .)
.\"O Fork off a new incarnation of \fBmount\fR for each device.
.\"O This will do the mounts on different devices or different NFS servers
.\"O in parallel.
.\"O This has the advantage that it is faster; also NFS timeouts proceed in
.\"O parallel.
.\"O A disadvantage is that the order of the mount operations is undefined.
.\"O Thus, you cannot use this option if you want to mount both
.\"O .I /usr
.\"O and
.\"O .IR /usr/spool .
.RB ( \-a
とともに用いる)
それぞれのデバイスごとに fork して新しい \fBmount\fR プロセスを生成する。
別々のデバイス、別々の NFS サーバに対するマウントを並行して行うことになる。
利点は動作が高速になること、
また NFS タイムアウトが並行して実行されることである。
逆に欠点としては、マウントの順序が規定されないことである。
したがって、
.I /usr
と
.I /usr/spool
の両方を同時にマウントするときには、このオプションを用いることは
できない。
.IP "\fB\-f, \-\-fake\fP"
.\"O Causes everything to be done except for the actual system call; if it's not
.\"O obvious, this ``fakes'' mounting the filesystem.  This option is useful in
.\"O conjunction with the
.\"O .B \-v
.\"O flag to determine what the
.\"O .B mount
.\"O command is trying to do.  It can also be used to add entries for devices
.\"O that were mounted earlier with the \fB\-n\fR option.  The \fB\-f\fR option
.\"O checks for an existing record in /etc/mtab and fails when the record already
.\"O exists (with a regular non-fake mount, this check is done by the kernel).
実際のシステムコール以外を除いてすべての動作をする。
もうちょっとわかりやすく言うと、
ファイルシステムのマウント動作を「行うふり」をする。
このオプションは
.B \-v
フラグとともに用いると便利で、
.B mount
コマンドが行おうとすることを確認できる。
また以前に \fB\-n\fR オプションを用いてマウントされたデバイスのエントリーを
.I /etc/mtab
に書き込む目的にも用いることができる。
.\"O The \fB\-f\fR option
.\"O checks for an existing record in
.\"O .I /etc/mtab
.\"O and fails when the record already
.\"O exists (with a regular non-fake mount, this check is done by the kernel).
\fB\-f\fR オプションは、
.I /etc/mtab
の既存のレコードをチェックし、
レコードが既に存在する場合、失敗する。
(通常のフェイクでないマウントがチェックされる。このチェックは、
カーネルで行われる。)
.IP "\fB\-i, \-\-internal\-only\fP"
.\"O Don't call the \fB/sbin/mount.\fIfilesystem\fR helper even if it exists.
\fB/sbin/mount.\fIfilesystem\fR ヘルパがあっても、呼び出さない。
.TP
.BR \-L , " \-\-label " \fIlabel
.\"O Mount the partition that has the specified
.\"O .IR label .
指定した
.I label
を持つパーティションをマウントする。
.TP
.BR \-l , " \-\-show\-labels"
.\"O Add the labels in the mount output.  \fBmount\fR must have
.\"O permission to read the disk device (e.g.\& be set-user-ID root) for this to work.
.\"O One can set such a label for ext2, ext3 or ext4 using the
.\"O .BR e2label (8)
.\"O utility, or for XFS using
.\"O .BR xfs_admin (8),
.\"O or for reiserfs using
.\"O .BR reiserfstune (8).
ラベルを mount の出力に追加する。
これを行うには、\fBmount\fR にディスクデバイスの読み取り権限が必要である
(つまり set-user-ID root されている必要がある)。
このような ext2, ext3, ext4 のラベルを設定するには
.BR e2label (8)
ユーティリティを用いればよい。
また、XFS のラベルを設定するには
.BR xfs_admin (8)
を用いればよい。
reiserfs のラベルを設定するには
.BR reiserfstune (8)
を用いればよい。
.TP
.BR \-M , " \-\-move"
.\"O Move a subtree to some other place.  See above, the subsection
.\"O \fBThe move operation\fR.
サブツリーをどこか別の場所に移動する。
上記のサブセクション \fBmove 操作\fR を参照すること。
.TP
.BR \-n , " \-\-no\-mtab"
.\"O Mount without writing in
.\"O .IR /etc/mtab .
.\"O This is necessary for example when
.\"O .I /etc
.\"O is on a read-only filesystem.
マウントの際に
.IR /etc/mtab
に書き込みを行わない。
これが必要になるのは、例えば
.I /etc
がリードオンリーのファイルシステムの場合などである。
.TP
.BR \-N , " \-\-namespace " \fIns
.\"O Perform the mount operation in the mount namespace specified by \fIns\fR.
.\"O \fIns\fR is either PID of process running in that namespace
.\"O or special file representing that namespace.
\fIns\fR で指定されたマウント名前空間でマウントを実行する。
\fIns\fR はその名前空間で実行されているプロセスの PID、
または名前空間を表すスペシャルファイルである。
.sp
.\"O .BR mount (8)
.\"O switches to the mount namespace when it reads
.\"O .IR /etc/fstab ,
.\"O writes
.\"O .I /etc/mtab
.\"O (or writes to
.\"O .IR /run/mount )
.\"O and calls the
.\"O .BR mount (2)
.\"O system call, otherwise it runs in the original mount namespace.
.\"O This means that the target namespace does not have
.\"O to contain any libraries or other requirements necessary to execute the
.\"O .BR mount (2)
.\"O call.
.BR mount (8)
は、
.I /etc/fstab
を読んで
.I /etc/mtab
に書き込み (または
.I /run/mount
に書き込み)、
.BR mount (2)
システムコールを呼び出し、マウント名前空間を切り替える。
さもなければ、元々のマウント名前空間で実行する。
これは、切り替え先の名前空間には、
.BR mount (2)
コマンドを実行するのに必要なライブラリや他に要求されるものを
含んでいる必要がないことを意味する。
.sp
.\"O See \fBmount_namespaces\fR(7) for more information.
より詳細な情報は、\fBmount_namespaces\fR(7) を参照すること。
.TP
.BR \-O , " \-\-test\-opts " \fIopts
.\"O Limit the set of filesystems to which the
.\"O .B \-a
.\"O option applies.  In this regard it is like the
.\"O .B \-t
.\"O option except that
.\"O .B \-O
.\"O is useless without
.\"O .BR \-a .
.\"O For example, the command:
.B \-a
オプションを適用するファイルシステムを制限する。
その点については、
.B \-O
が
.B \-a
なしで指定できない点を除けば、
.B \-t
オプションに似ている。
例えば、コマンド:
.RS
.RS
.sp
.B "mount \-a \-O no_netdev"
.sp
.RE
.\"O mounts all filesystems except those which have the option
.\"O .I _netdev
.\"O specified in the options field in the
.\"O .I /etc/fstab
.\"O file.
はオプション
.I _netdev
が
.I /etc/fstab
ファイルのオプションフィールドで指定されている
ファイルシステム以外の全てのファイルシステムをマウントする。

.\"O It is different from
.\"O .B \-t
.\"O in that each option is matched exactly; a leading
.\"O .B no
.\"O at the beginning of one option does not negate the rest.
.B \-t
オプションが厳密にマッチする点が異なる。
.B no
をオプションの前に付けると、残りオプションは無効にされない。

.\"O The
.\"O .B \-t
.\"O and
.\"O .B \-O
.\"O options are cumulative in effect; that is, the command
.B \-t
と
.B \-O
オプションは機能が足し合わされる。
つまり、コマンド
.RS
.sp
.B "mount \-a \-t ext2 \-O _netdev"
.sp
.RE
.\"O mounts all ext2 filesystems with the _netdev option, not all filesystems
.\"O that are either ext2 or have the _netdev option specified.
は -netdev オプションが付けられた ext2 ファイルシステムをマウントし、
ext2 ファイルシステム、または _netdev オプションのいずれかの場合は、
マウントしない。
.RE
.TP
.BR \-o , " \-\-options " \fIopts
.\"O Use the specified mount options.  The \fIopts\fR argument is
.\"O a comma-separated list.  For example:
指定されたマウントオプションを使う。
\fIopts\fR 引き数はカンマ区切りのリストである。
例:
.RS
.RS
.sp
.B "mount LABEL=mydisk \-o noatime,nodev,nosuid"
.sp
.RE

.\"O For more details, see the
.\"O .B FILESYSTEM-INDEPENDENT MOUNT OPTIONS
.\"O and
.\"O .B FILESYSTEM-SPECIFIC MOUNT OPTIONS
.\"O sections.
より詳細は
.B ファイルシステム非依存のマウントオプション
と
.B ファイルシステム独自のマウントオプション
のセクションを参照すること。
.RE

.TP
.BR "\-\-options\-mode " \fImode
.\"O Controls how to combine options from
.\"O .IR fstab / mtab
.\"O with options from the command line.
.\"O \fImode\fR can be one of
.\"O .BR ignore ", " append ", " prepend " or " replace .
.\"O For example, \fBappend\fR means that options from
.\"O .I fstab
.\"O are appended to options from the command line.
.\"O The default value is \fBprepend\fR -- it means command line options are evaluated after
.\"O .I fstab
.\"O options.
コマンドラインからのオプションを、
.IR fstab / mtab
のオプションとどのように組み合わせるかを制御する。
\fImode\fR は
.BR ignore ", " append ", " prepend ", " replace
のいずれかである。
例えば、\fBappend\fR は、
.I fstab
のオプションはコマンドラインから
指定されたオプションに足し合わされる。
デフォルト値は \fBprepend\fR である。-- これは、コマンドラインオプションが
.I fstab
オプションの後に評価されることを意味する。
オプションが衝突する場合、最後のオプションが勝つ点に注意すること。

.TP
.BR "\-\-options\-source " \fIsource
.\"O Source of default options.
.\"O \fIsource\fR is a comma-separated list of
.\"O .BR fstab ", " mtab " and " disable .
.\"O \fBdisable\fR disables
.\"O .BR fstab " and " mtab
.\"O and disables \fB\-\-options\-source\-force\fR.
.\"O The default value is \fBfstab,mtab\fR.
デフォルトオプションの指定元。
\fIsource\fR は
.BR fstab ", " mtab ", " disable
をカンマ区切りのリストで指定したものである。
\fBdisable\fR は
.BR fstab " と " mtab
を無効化し、\fB\-\-options\-source\-force\fR を無効化する。
デフォルト値は \fBfstab,mtab\fR である。

.TP
.B \-\-options\-source\-force
.\"O Use options from
.\"O .IR fstab / mtab
.\"O even if both \fIdevice\fR and \fIdir\fR are specified.
\fIdevice\fR と \fIdir\fR の両方が指定された場合も、
.IR fstab / mtab
からのオプションを使う。

.TP
.BR \-R , " \-\-rbind"
.\"O Remount a subtree and all possible submounts somewhere else (so that its
.\"O contents are available in both places).  See above, the subsection
.\"O \fBBind mounts\fR.
サブツリーと利用可能な全てのサブマウントを、どこか他の場所に
再マウントする
(その内容は両方の場所で利用可能にする)。
上記のサブセクション \fBbind マウント\fR を参照すること。
.TP
.BR \-r , " \-\-read\-only"
.\"O Mount the filesystem read-only.  A synonym is
.\"O .BR "\-o ro" .
ファイルシステムを読み込みのみでマウントする。
別名は
.B "\-o ro"
である。
.sp
.\"O Note that, depending on the filesystem type, state and kernel behavior, the
.\"O system may still write to the device.  For example, ext3 and ext4 will replay the
.\"O journal if the filesystem is dirty.  To prevent this kind of write access, you
.\"O may want to mount an ext3 or ext4 filesystem with the \fBro,noload\fR mount
.\"O options or set the block device itself to read-only mode, see the
.\"O .BR blockdev (8)
.\"O command.
ファイルシステムタイプとファイルシステムの状態とカーネルの
挙動により、システムがデバイスに書き込むことができる場合もある。
例えば、ext3 と ext4 では、ファイルシステムがダーティである場合、ジャーナルを再生する。
このような書き込みアクセスを防止するには、
ext3 または ext4 ファイルシステムを \fBro,noload\fR マウントオプションでマウントするか、
デバイス自身を読み込みのみのモードに設定する。
.BR blockdev (8)
コマンドを参照すること。
.TP
.B \-s
.\"O Tolerate sloppy mount options rather than failing.  This will ignore mount
.\"O options not supported by a filesystem type.  Not all filesystems support this
.\"O option.  Currently it's supported by the \fBmount.nfs\fR mount helper only.
ずさんな (sloppy) マウントオプションについて、失敗させるのではなく、大目に見る。
ファイルシステムタイプでサポートされていないマウントオプションを
無視する。
全てのファイルシステムが、このオプションをサポートしている
わけではない。
現在、\fBmount.nfs\fR マウントヘルパーでのみサポートされている。
.TP
.BI \-\-source " device"
.\"O If only one argument for the mount command is given, then the argument might be
.\"O interpreted as the target (mountpoint) or source (device).
.\"O This option allows you to
.\"O explicitly define that the argument is the mount source.
マウントコマンドの引き数が 1 つだけ指定された場合、
その引き数はマウント先 (マウントポイント) またはマウント元 (デバイス) として
解釈される。
このオプションは引き数が明示的にマウント元であることを定義できる。
.TP
.BI \-\-target " directory"
.\"O If only one argument for the mount command is given, then the argument might be
.\"O interpreted as the target (mountpoint) or source (device).
.\"O This option allows you to
.\"O explicitly define that the argument is the mount target.
マウントコマンドの引き数が 1 つだけ指定された場合、
その引き数はマウント先 (マウントポイント) またはマウント元 (デバイス) として
解釈される。
このオプションは引き数が明示的にマウント先であることを定義できる。
.TP
.BI \-\-target\-prefix " directory"
.\"O Prepend the specified directory to all mount targets.
指定したディレクトリを、すべてのマウント先の前に付ける。
.\"O This option can be used to follow
.\"O .IR fstab ,
.\"O but mount operations are done in another place, for example:
このオプションは
.I fstab
に従って使うことができるが、マウント操作は他の場所にできる。
例えば:
.RS
.RS
.sp
.B "mount \-\-all \-\-target\-prefix /chroot \-o X\-mount.mkdir"
.sp
.RE
.\"O mounts all from system
.\"O .I fstab
.\"O to
.\"O .IR /chroot ,
.\"O all missing mountpoint are created
.\"O (due to X-mount.mkdir).  See also \fB\-\-fstab\fP to use an alternative
.\"O .IR fstab .
はシステムの
.I fstab
にあるすべてを
.IR /chroot
にマウントし、(X-mount.mkdir に従って) すべての存在しないマウントポイントが作成される。
別の
.I fstab
を使う場合は、\fB\-\-fstab\fP を参照すること。
.RE
.TP
.BR \-T , " \-\-fstab " \fIpath
.\"O Specifies an alternative
.\"O .I fstab
.\"O file.
.\"O If \fIpath\fP is a directory, then the files
.\"O in the directory are sorted by
.\"O .BR strverscmp (3);
.\"O files that start with "."\& or without an
.\"O .I \&.fstab
.\"O extension are ignored.  The option
.\"O can be specified more than once.  This option is mostly designed for initramfs
.\"O or chroot scripts where additional configuration is specified beyond standard
.\"O system configuration.
別の
.I fstab
ファイルを指定する。
\fIpath\fP がディレクトリの場合、ディレクトリ内のファイルは
.BR strverscmp (3)
でソートされ、"."\& で始まるファイルと、
.I \&.fstab
拡張子のないファイルは無視される。
このオプションは複数回指定できる。
このオプションは、ほぼ initramfs または chroot スクリプトのために設計されており、
追加の設定は、標準のシステム設定の範囲を越えて指定されている。
.sp
.\"O Note that \fBmount\fR(8) does not pass the option \fB\-\-fstab\fP to the
.\"O \fB/sbin/mount.\fItype\fR helpers, meaning that the alternative
.\"O .I fstab
.\"O files will be
.\"O invisible for the helpers.  This is no problem for normal mounts, but user
.\"O (non-root) mounts always require
.\"O .I fstab
.\"O to verify the user's rights.
\fBmount\fR(8) はオプション \fB\-\-fstab\fP を
\fB/sbin/mount.\fItype\fR ヘルパーに渡さない点に注意すること。
つまり、別の
.I fstab
ファイルはヘルパーから見えない。
これは通常のマウントでは問題なく、(root 以外の) ユーザーによるマウントは、
ユーザーの権限をチェックするために、
.I fstab
が常に必要がある。
.TP
.BR \-t , " \-\-types " \fIfstype
.\"O The argument following the
.\"O .B \-t
.\"O is used to indicate the filesystem type.  The filesystem types which are
.\"O currently supported depend on the running kernel.  See
.\"O .I /proc/filesystems
.\"O and
.\"O .I /lib/modules/$(uname \-r)/kernel/fs
.\"O for a complete list of the filesystems.  The most common are ext2, ext3, ext4,
.\"O xfs, btrfs, vfat, sysfs, proc, nfs and cifs.
.B \-t
に続く引き数はファイルシステムタイプを指定するのに用いられる。
現在サポートされているファイルシステムは動作しているカーネルに
依存する。
完全なファイルシステムのリストは、
.I /proc/filesystems
と
.I /lib/modules/$(uname \-r)/kernel/fs
を参照すること。
もっとも一般的なファイルシステムは、ext2, ext3, ext4,
xfs, btrfs, vfat, sysfs, proc, nfs, cifs である。
.sp
.\"O The programs
.\"O .B mount
.\"O and
.\"O .B umount
.\"O support filesystem subtypes.  The subtype is defined by a '.subtype' suffix.  For
.\"O example  'fuse.sshfs'.  It's recommended to use subtype notation rather than add
.\"O any prefix to the mount source (for example 'sshfs#example.com' is
.\"O deprecated).
プログラム
.B mount
と
.B umount
はファイルシステムのサブタイプををサポートする。
サブタイプは '.subtype' サフィックスで定義される。
例えば、'fuse.sshfs' のようになる。
マウント元にプレフィックスを足すよりは、サブタイプの記法を使う方が
推奨される (例えば 'sshfs#example.com' は推奨されない)。

.\"O If no
.\"O .B \-t
.\"O option is given, or if the
.\"O .B auto
.\"O type is specified,
.\"O .B mount
.\"O will try to guess the desired type.
.B \-t
オプションが与えられなかった場合や、
.B auto
タイプが指定された場合、
.B mount
は適切なタイプを推測する。
.\"O Mount uses the blkid library for guessing the filesystem
.\"O type; if that does not turn up anything that looks familiar,
.\"O mount will try to read the file
.\"O .IR /etc/filesystems ,
.\"O or, if that does not exist,
.\"O .IR /proc/filesystems .
.\"O All of the filesystem types listed there will be tried,
.\"O except for those that are labeled "nodev" (e.g.\&
.\"O .IR devpts ,
.\"O .I proc
.\"O and
.\"O .IR nfs ).
.B mount
はファイルシステムタイプの推測に blkid ライブラリを使う。
このプローブに失敗すると、\fBmount\fP はファイル
.I /etc/filesystems
を読み込もうとする。
さらにこのファイルがなければ
.I /proc/filesystems
を読み込もうとする。
そして、読み込んだファイルにリストされているファイルシステムが
テストされる。
ただし "nodev" ラベルの付いているもの (すなわち
.IR devpts ,
.IR proc ,
.IR nfs )
はテストから除かれる。
.\"O If
.\"O .I /etc/filesystems
.\"O ends in a line with a single *, mount will read
.\"O .I /proc/filesystems
.\"O afterwards.  While trying, all filesystem types will be
.\"O mounted with the mount option \fBsilent\fR.
.I /etc/filesystems
が * のみの行で終わっている場合、
.B mount
はその後に
.I /proc/filesystems
を読み込む。
.\"O While trying, all filesystem types will be
.\"O mounted with the mount option \fBsilent\fR.
マウントを試す際、
全てのファイルシステムタイプがマウントオプション
\fBsilent\fR が指定されてマウントされる。
.sp
.\"O The
.\"O .B auto
.\"O type may be useful for user-mounted floppies.
.\"O Creating a file
.\"O .I /etc/filesystems
.\"O can be useful to change the probe order (e.g., to try vfat before msdos
.\"O or ext3 before ext2) or if you use a kernel module autoloader.
.B auto
タイプはフロッピーを一般ユーザーがマウントする場合に特に
便利であろう。
プローブの順序を変更したい場合
(例えば msdos の前に vfat の試行をしたい場合や
ext2 の前に ext3 を試行したい場合) や、
カーネルモジュールの自動ローダを利用している場合には、
.I /etc/filesystems
ファイルを作っておくと便利である。
.sp
.\"O More than one type may be specified in a comma-separated
.\"O list, for the
.\"O .B \-t
.\"O option as well as in an
.\"O .I /etc/fstab
.\"O entry.  The list of filesystem types for the
.\"O .B \-t
.\"O option can be prefixed with
.\"O .B no
.\"O to specify the filesystem types on which no action should be taken.
.\"O The prefix
.\"O .B no
.\"O has no effect when specified in an
.\"O .I /etc/fstab
.\"O entry.
複数のタイプをコンマで区切ったリストで指定することもできる。
オプション
.B \-t
は
.I /etc/fstab
エントリと同様に指定できる。
オプション
.B \-t
のファイルシステムタイプのリストは、
.B no
をプレフィックスにして、そのファイルシステムタイプに対して
何もしないことを指定する。
プレフィックス
.B no
は
.I /etc/fstab
エントリに指定された場合も何もしない。
.sp
.\"O The prefix
.\"O .B no
.\"O can be meaningful with the
.\"O .B \-a
.\"O option.  For example, the command
プレフィックス
.B no
は
.R \-a
オプションとともに指定すると意味がある。
例えば以下のコマンド:
.RS
.RS
.sp
.B "mount \-a \-t nomsdos,smbfs"
.sp
.RE
.\"O mounts all filesystems except those of type
.\"O .I msdos
.\"O and
.\"O .IR smbfs .
は
.I msdos
および
.I smbfs
を除くすべてのファイルシステムをマウントする。
.sp
.\"O For most types all the
.\"O .B mount
.\"O program has to do is issue a simple
.\"O .BR mount (2)
.\"O system call, and no detailed knowledge of the filesystem type is required.
大部分のタイプに対して、全ての
.B mount
プログラムは単純に
.BR mount (2)
システムコールを発行するだけであり、ファイルシステムタイプについての
詳細な知識は必要ない。
.\"O For a few types however (like nfs, nfs4, cifs, smbfs, ncpfs) an ad hoc code is
.\"O necessary.  The nfs, nfs4, cifs, smbfs, and ncpfs filesystems
.\"O have a separate mount program.  In order to make it possible to
.\"O treat all types in a uniform way, \fBmount\fR will execute the program
.\"O .BI /sbin/mount. type
.\"O (if that exists) when called with type
.\"O .IR type .
一方で、(nfs, nfs4, cifs, smbfs, ncpfs のような) いくつかのタイプでは、
アドホックなコードが必要である。
nfs, nfs4, cifs, smbfs, ncpfs ファイルシステムについては、
別々のマウントプログラムがある。
全てのタイプを統一された方法で扱えるようにするため、
\fBmount\fR は、タイプ
.I type
が指定されて呼び出された場合、(存在すれば) プログラム
.BI /sbin/mount. type
を実行する。
.\"O Since different versions of the
.\"O .B smbmount
.\"O program have different calling conventions,
.\"O .B /sbin/mount.smbfs
.\"O may have to be a shell script that sets up the desired call.
.B smbmount
プログラムはバージョン毎には別の呼び出し方があるので、
.B /sbin/mount.smbfs
は、望ましい呼び出しを実現するためのシェルスクリプトにする
必要がある。
.RE
.TP
.BR \-U , " \-\-uuid " \fIuuid
.\"O Mount the partition that has the specified
.\"O .IR uuid .
指定された
.I uuid
を持つパーティションをマウントする。
.TP
.BR \-v , " \-\-verbose"
.\"O Verbose mode.
詳細なモード。
.TP
.BR \-w , " \-\-rw" , " \-\-read\-write"
.\"O Mount the filesystem read/write.  Read-write is the kernel default and the
.\"O .B mount
.\"O default is to try read-only if the previous mount syscall with read-write flags
.\"O on write-protected devices of filesystems failed.
ファイルシステムを読み書きモードでマウントする。
読み書きモードはカーネルのデフォルトである。
書き込み禁止されたデバイス上のファイルシステムに対して、
読み書きフラグでの mount システムコールが以前に失敗している場合、
.B mount
はデフォルトを読み込みのみにする。
.sp
.\"O A synonym is
.\"O .BR "\-o rw" .
別名は
.B "\-o rw"
である。

.\"O Note that specifying \fB\-w\fR on the command line forces \fBmount\fR to never
.\"O try read-only mount on write-protected devices or already mounted read-only
.\"O filesystems.
コマンドラインで \fB\-w\fR を指定した場合、\fBmount\fR に
書き込み禁止されたデバイス、または読み込みのみでマウントされた
ファイルシステムに対して、読み込みのみのマウントを試させない。
.TP
.BR \-V , " \-\-version"
.\"O Display version information and exit.
バージョン情報を表示して、終了する。
.TP
.BR \-h , " \-\-help"
.\"O Display help text and exit.
ヘルプを表示して、終了する。

.\"O .SH FILESYSTEM-INDEPENDENT MOUNT OPTIONS
.SH ファイルシステム非依存のマウントオプション
.\"O Some of these options are only useful when they appear in the
.\"O .I /etc/fstab
.\"O file.
オプションの指定を行うには、
.B \-o
フラグに続けて各オプションをコンマで区切った文字列を書く。
オプションには、
.I /etc/fstab
の中でのみ意味を持つものもある。

.\"O Some of these options could be enabled or disabled by default
.\"O in the system kernel.  To check the current setting see the options
.\"O .IR /proc/mounts .
.\"O Note that filesystems also have per-filesystem
.\"O specific default mount options (see for example \fBtune2fs \-l\fP
.\"O output for extN filesystems).
これらのオプションのいくつかは、システムカーネルでデフォルトで
有効または無効にされる。
現在の設定を見るには、
.I /proc/mounts
のオプションを参照すること。
ファイルシステムにはファイルシステム毎のデフォルトの
マウントオプションがある
(例えば extN ファイルシステムについては
\fBtune2fs \-l\fP の出力を参照すること)。

.\"O The following options apply to any filesystem that is being
.\"O mounted (but not every filesystem actually honors them \(en e.g.\&, the
.\"O .B sync
.\"O option today has an effect only for ext2, ext3, ext4, fat, vfat, ufs and xfs):
以下のオプションはマウントされるすべての
ファイルシステムに適用できるものである
(但し、全てのファイルシステムがこれらのオプションを引き受けるとは限らない。
例えば、
.B sync
オプションは現在 ext2, ext3, ext4, fat, vfat, ufs, xfs でのみ効果をもつ):

.TP
.B async
.\"O All I/O to the filesystem should be done asynchronously.  (See also the
.\"O .B sync
.\"O option.)
そのファイルシステムに対するすべての I/O が非同期 (asynchronous) に行われる。
.RB ( sync
オプションも参照すること。)
.TP
.B atime
.\"O Do not use the \fBnoatime\fR feature, so the inode access time is controlled
.\"O by kernel defaults.  See also the descriptions of the \fB\%relatime\fR and
.\"O .B strictatime
.\"O mount options.
\fBnoatime\fR 機能を使わない。
よって、i ノードアクセス時刻はデフォルトでカーネルが制御する。
\fB\%relatime\fR と
.B strictatime
マウントオプションの説明を参照すること。
.TP
.B noatime
.\"O Do not update inode access times on this filesystem (e.g.\& for faster
.\"O access on the news spool to speed up news servers).  This works for all
.\"O inode types (directories too), so it implies \fB\%nodiratime\fR.
このファイルシステムの i ノードアクセス時刻を更新しない
(例えば、ニューススプールのアクセスを速くして、ニュースサーバーを
スピードアップする)。
これは全ての i ノードタイプ (ディレクトリを含む) に働くので、
\fB\%nodiratime\fR を暗黙のうちに指定する。
.TP
.B auto
.\"O Can be mounted with the
.\"O .B \-a
.\"O option.
.B \-a
が指定されたときにマウントされる。
.TP
.B noauto
.\"O Can only be mounted explicitly (i.e., the
.\"O .B \-a
.\"O option will not cause the filesystem to be mounted).
明示的にマウントするのみにする
(つまり、
.B \-a
オプションでファイルシステムをマウントしない)。
.TP
.na
.\"O .BR context=\fIcontext ", " fscontext=\fIcontext ", " defcontext=\fIcontext ", and " \%rootcontext=\fIcontext
.BR context=\fIcontext ", " fscontext=\fIcontext ", " defcontext=\fIcontext ", " \%rootcontext=\fIcontext
.ad
.\"O The
.\"O .B context=
.\"O option is useful when mounting filesystems that do not support
.\"O extended attributes, such as a floppy or hard disk formatted with VFAT, or
.\"O systems that are not normally running under SELinux, such as an ext3 or ext4 formatted
.\"O disk from a non-SELinux workstation.  You can also use
.\"O .B context=
.\"O on filesystems you do not trust, such as a floppy.  It also helps in compatibility with
.\"O xattr-supporting filesystems on earlier 2.4.<x> kernel versions.  Even where
.\"O xattrs are supported, you can save time not having to label every file by
.\"O assigning the entire disk one security context.
拡張属性をサポートしないファイルシステムをマウントする際に、
.B context=
オプションは役立つ。
そのようなファイルシステムには、フロッピーや VFAT でフォーマットされたハードディスク、
通常は SELinux を動作させないシステム、
SELinux でないワークステーションでフォーマットされた
ext3 または ext4 のディスクなどがある。
また、フロッピーのように、信頼できないファイルシステムにも
.B context=
を使うことができる。
これは、以前の 2.4.<x> カーネルバージョンで、
xattr をサポートするファイルシステムを使う場合に、互換性の助けになる。
xattr がサポートされているにも関わらず、
ディスク全体が 1 つのセキュリティコンテキストであると仮定することで、
全てのファイルをラベル付けせずに時間を節約することができる。

.\"O A commonly used option for removable media is
.\"O .BR \%context="system_u:object_r:removable_t" .
リムーバブルメディアについて一般に使われるオプションは、
.B \%context="system_u:object_r:removable_t"
である。

.\"O Two other options are
.\"O .B fscontext=
.\"O and
.\"O .BR defcontext= ,
.\"O both of which are mutually exclusive of the
.\"O .B context=
.\"O option.  This means you
.\"O can use fscontext and defcontext with each other, but neither can be used with
.\"O context.
他の 2 つのオプションは
.B fscontext=
と
.B defcontext=
である。
この 2 つのオプションは
.B context=
オプションとして、同時に 2 つを指定することができない。
これは、fscontext と defcontext はいずれかを指定できるが、
両方を指定することはできないことを意味する。

.\"O The
.\"O .B fscontext=
.\"O option works for all filesystems, regardless of their xattr
.\"O support.  The fscontext option sets the overarching filesystem label to a
.\"O specific security context.  This filesystem label is separate from the
.\"O individual labels on the files.  It represents the entire filesystem for
.\"O certain kinds of permission checks, such as during mount or file creation.
.B fscontext=
オプションは、xattr サポートに関わらず全てのファイルシステムに働く。
fscontext オプションは、特定のセキュリティコンテキストに対して、
非常に重要なファイルシステムラベルを設定する。
このファイルシステムラベルは、ファイルの個別のラベルとは
別にされている。
これは、ファイルシステム全体に対して、マウントやファイル作成の際の、
ある種の権限チェックを表す。
.\"O Individual file labels are still obtained from the xattrs on the files
.\"O themselves.  The context option actually sets the aggregate context that
.\"O fscontext provides, in addition to supplying the same label for individual
.\"O files.
個々のファイルラベルは、まだファイル自体の xattr から取得される。
コンテキストオプションは、各ファイルについて同じラベルが
与えられるのに加え、
fscontext が提供する総計のコンテキストが実際に設定される。

.\"O You can set the default security context for unlabeled files using
.\"O .B defcontext=
.\"O option.  This overrides the value set for unlabeled files in the policy and requires a
.\"O filesystem that supports xattr labeling.
.B defcontext=
オプションを使って、デフォルトセキュリティコンテキストを設定し、
ファイルのラベルを外すことができる。
このオプションは、ポリシーでラベルが外されたファイルの値セットを
上書きし、xattr ラベリングをサポートするファイルシステムを必要とする。

.\"O The
.\"O .B rootcontext=
.\"O option allows you to explicitly label the root inode of a FS being mounted
.\"O before that FS or inode becomes visible to userspace.  This was found to be
.\"O useful for things like stateless Linux.
.B rootcontext=
オプションは、ファイルシステムまたは i ノードがユーザ空間に見える前に、
マウントされるファイルシステムのルート i ノードに明示的にラベル付けできる。
これは、ステートレスな Linux で便利なことがわかるだろう。

.\"O Note that the kernel rejects any remount request that includes the context
.\"O option, \fBeven\fP when unchanged from the current context.
カーネルは、現在のコンテキストから\fBたとえ\fP変更されていなくても、
コンテキストオプションを含む再マウント要求を拒否する。

.\"O .BR "Warning: the \fIcontext\fP value might contain commas" ,
.\"O in which case the value has to be properly quoted, otherwise
.\"O .BR mount (8)
.\"O will interpret the comma as a separator between mount options.  Don't forget that
.\"O the shell strips off quotes and thus
.\"O .BR "double quoting is required" .
.\"O For example:
.BR "警告: \fIcontext\fP の値はカンマを含む可能性がある" 。
この場合、値を正しくクォートしなければならない。
さもないと、
.BR mount (8)
はカンマをマウントオプションの区切り文字として解釈してしまう。
シェルがクォートを外してしまうことを忘れてはいけないので、
.BR "ダブルクォートが必要である" 。
例:
.RS
.RS
.sp
.nf
.B mount \-t tmpfs none /mnt \-o \e
.B \ \ 'context="system_u:object_r:tmp_t:s0:c127,c456",noexec'
.fi
.sp
.RE
.\"O For more details, see
.\"O .BR selinux (8).
より詳細は、
.BR selinux (8)
を参照すること。
.RE

.TP
.B defaults
.\"O Use the default options:
.\"O .BR rw ", " suid ", " dev ", " exec ", " auto ", " nouser ", and " async .
デフォルトのオプション:
.BR rw ", " suid ", " dev ", " exec ", " auto ", " nouser ", " async
を用いる。

.\"O Note that the real set of all default mount options depends on the kernel
.\"O and filesystem type.  See the beginning of this section for more details.
全てのデフォルトのマウントオプションの実際の集合は、
カーネルとファイルシステムタイプに依存する点に注意すること。
より詳細は、このセクションの最初を参照すること。
.TP
.B dev
.\"O Interpret character or block special devices on the filesystem.
ファイルシステム上のキャラクタ・スペシャル・デバイスや
ブロック・スペシャル・デバイスを利用できるようにする。
.TP
.B nodev
.\"O Do not interpret character or block special devices on the filesystem.
ファイルシステム上のキャラクタ・スペシャル・デバイスや
ブロック・スペシャル・デバイスを利用できるようにしない。
.TP
.B diratime
.\"O Update directory inode access times on this filesystem.  This is the default.
.\"O (This option is ignored when \fBnoatime\fR is set.)
ファイルシステム上のディレクトリ i ノードアクセス時刻を更新する。
これがデフォルトである。
(このオプションは \fBnoatime\fR が設定されている場合、無視される。)
.TP
.B nodiratime
.\"O Do not update directory inode access times on this filesystem.
.\"O (This option is implied when \fBnoatime\fR is set.)
ファイルシステム上のディレクトリ i ノードアクセス時刻を更新しない。
(このオプションは \fBnoatime\fR が設定されている場合、暗黙のうちに設定される。)
.TP
.B dirsync
.\"O All directory updates within the filesystem should be done synchronously.
.\"O This affects the following system calls: creat, link, unlink, symlink,
.\"O mkdir, rmdir, mknod and rename.
ファイルシステムの全てのディレクトリの更新が同期的 (synchronously) に行われる。
これは以下のシステムコールに影響する: creat, link, unlink, symlink,
mkdir, rmdir, mknod, rename.
.TP
.B exec
.\"O Permit execution of binaries.
バイナリの実行を許可する。
.TP
.B noexec
.\"O Do not permit direct execution of any binaries on the mounted filesystem.
マウントされているファイルシステム上のバイナリの直接実行を許可しない。
.TP
.B group
.\"O Allow an ordinary user to mount the filesystem if one
.\"O of that user's groups matches the group of the device.
通常のユーザーの属するグループのうちの 1 つが
デバイスのグループとマッチした場合に、
そのユーザーがファイルシステムをマウントするのを許可する。
.\"O This option implies the options
.\"O .BR nosuid " and " nodev
.\"O (unless overridden by subsequent options, as in the option line
.\"O .BR group,dev,suid ).
このオプションはオプション
.BR nosuid " と " nodev
を暗黙のうちに指定する
(ただし、オプション行で
.B group,dev,suid
のようにして、その後のオプションで上書きしない限り)。
.TP
.B iversion
.\"O Every time the inode is modified, the i_version field will be incremented.
i ノードが修正される度に、i_version フィールドを増加させる。
.TP
.B noiversion
.\"O Do not increment the i_version inode field.
i_version i ノードフィールドを増加させない。
.TP
.B mand
.\"O Allow mandatory locks on this filesystem.  See
.\"O .BR fcntl (2).
このファイルシステム上での強制 (mandatory) ロックを許可する。
.BR fcntl (2)
を参照すること。
.TP
.B nomand
.\"O Do not allow mandatory locks on this filesystem.
このファイルシステム上での強制 (mandatory) ロックを許可しない。
.TP
.B _netdev
.\"O The filesystem resides on a device that requires network access
.\"O (used to prevent the system from attempting to mount these filesystems
.\"O until the network has been enabled on the system).
ネットワークアクセスが必要なデバイス上にあるファイルシステム
(システムでネットワークが使用可能になるまでは、
ファイルシステムをマウントさせないために使われる)。
.TP
.B nofail
.\"O Do not report errors for this device if it does not exist.
このデバイス上で、エラーがない場合は、報告しない。
.TP
.B relatime
.\"O Update inode access times relative to modify or change time.  Access
.\"O time is only updated if the previous access time was earlier than the
.\"O current modify or change time.  (Similar to \fB\%noatime\fR, but it doesn't
.\"O break \fBmutt\fR or other applications that need to know if a file has been
.\"O read since the last time it was modified.)
修正時刻や変更時刻と比較して、i ノードのアクセス時刻を更新する。
以前のアクセス時刻が、現在の修正時刻または変更時刻より前である
場合にのみ、アクセス時刻が更新される。
(\fB\%noatime\fR と似ているが、
ファイルが最後に修正されてから読まれているかを知る必要がある
\fBmutt\fR や他のアプリケーションを壊さない。)

.\"O Since Linux 2.6.30, the kernel defaults to the behavior provided by this
.\"O option (unless
.\"O .B \%noatime
.\"O was specified), and the
.\"O .B \%strictatime
.\"O option is required to obtain traditional semantics.  In addition, since Linux
.\"O 2.6.30, the file's last access time is always updated if it is more than 1
.\"O day old.
Linux 2.6.30 以降では、カーネルのデフォルトの挙動は、
.RB ( \%noatime
が指定されていない限り) このオプションで提供される。
これまでの挙動にする場合、
.B \%strictatime
オプションを指定する必要がある。
加えて、Linux 2.6.30 以降では、
ファイルの最終アクセス時刻が 1 日より前の場合、常に更新される。
.TP
.B norelatime
.\"O Do not use the
.\"O .B relatime
.\"O feature.  See also the
.\"O .B strictatime
.\"O mount option.
.B relatime
機能を使わない。
.B strictatime
マウントオプションも参照すること。
.TP
.B strictatime
.\"O Allows to explicitly request full atime updates.  This makes it
.\"O possible for the kernel to default to
.\"O .B \%relatime
.\"O or
.\"O .B \%noatime
.\"O but still allow userspace to override it.  For more details about the default
.\"O system mount options see
.\"O .IR /proc/mounts .
完全な atime 更新を明示的に許可する。
これは
.B \%relatime
または
.B \%noatime
がカーネルのデフォルトに指定された場合に利用可能になるが、
ユーザー空間で上書きすることもできる。
デフォルトのシステムマウントオプションの詳細は、
.I /proc/mounts
を参照すること。
.TP
.B nostrictatime
.\"O Use the kernel's default behavior for inode access time updates.
i ノードアクセス時刻の更新について、カーネルのデフォルトの挙動を使う。
.TP
.B lazytime
.\"O Only update times (atime, mtime, ctime) on the in-memory version of the file inode.
メモリ内のファイル i ノードの時刻 (atime, mtime, ctime) のみを更新する。

.\"O This mount option significantly reduces writes to the inode table for
.\"O workloads that perform frequent random writes to preallocated files.
このマウントオプションは、事前確保されたファイルに対して
頻繁なランダム書き込みを行う際の、i ノードテーブルへの書き込みの負荷を顕著に減少させる。

.\"O The on-disk timestamps are updated only when:
ディスク上のタイムスタンプの更新は、以下の場合にのみ行われる:
.RS
.IP - 2
.\"O the inode needs to be updated for some change unrelated to file timestamps
ファイルのタイムスタンプに関係のない何らかの変更について、
i ノードが更新される必要があった場合。
.IP -
.\"O the application employs
.\"O .BR fsync (2),
.\"O .BR syncfs (2),
.\"O or
.\"O .BR sync (2)
アプリケーションが
.BR fsync (2),
.BR syncfs (2),
.BR sync (2)
を呼び出した場合。
.IP -
.\"O an undeleted inode is evicted from memory
削除されていない i ノードが、メモリから追い出された場合。
.IP -
.\"O more than 24 hours have passed since the i-node was written to disk.
i ノードがディスクに書かれてから、24 時間以上が経過した場合。
.RE
.sp
.TP
.B nolazytime
.\"O Do not use the lazytime feature.
lazytime 機能を使わない。
.TP
.B suid
.\"O Honor set-user-ID and set-group-ID bits or file capabilities when
.\"O executing programs from this filesystem.
このファイルシステムからプログラムを実行する場合、
set-user-ID と set-group-ID ビット、
またはファイルのケーパビリティ (capability) を遵守する。
.TP
.B nosuid
.\"O Do not honor set-user-ID and set-group-ID bits or file capabilities when
.\"O executing programs from this filesystem.
このファイルシステムからプログラムを実行する場合、
set-user-ID と set-group-ID ビット、
またはファイルのケーパビリティ (capability) を遵守しない。
.TP
.B silent
.\"O Turn on the silent flag.
silent フラグを有効にする。
.TP
.B loud
.\"O Turn off the silent flag.
silent フラグを無効にする。
.TP
.B owner
.\"O Allow an ordinary user to mount the filesystem if that
.\"O user is the owner of the device.
通常のユーザーがデバイスの所有者とマッチした場合に、
そのユーザーがファイルシステムをマウントするのを許可する。
.\"O This option implies the options
.\"O .BR nosuid " and " nodev
.\"O (unless overridden by subsequent options, as in the option line
.\"O .BR owner,dev,suid ).
このオプションはオプション
.BR nosuid " と " nodev
を暗黙のうちに指定する
(ただし、オプション行で
.B owner,dev,suid
のようにして、その後のオプションで上書きしない限り)。
.TP
.B remount
.\"O Attempt to remount an already-mounted filesystem.  This is commonly
.\"O used to change the mount flags for a filesystem, especially to make a
.\"O readonly filesystem writable.  It does not change device or mount point.
すでにマウントされているファイルシステムを再マウントしようとする。
これは通常ファイルシステムのマウントフラグを変更するとき
(特にリードオンリーのファイルシステムを書き込み可能にするとき) に用いられる。
デバイスとマウントポイントを変更しない。

.\"O The remount operation together with the
.\"O .B bind
.\"O flag has special semantics. See above, the subsection \fBBind mounts\fR.
.B bind
フラグを付けた再マウント操作は特別な意味を持つ。
上記のサブセクション \fBbind マウント\fR を参照すること。

.\"O The remount functionality follows the standard way the
.\"O .B mount
.\"O command works
.\"O with options from
.\"O .IR fstab .
.\"O This means that \fBmount\fR does not read
.\"O .I fstab
.\"O (or
.\"O .IR mtab )
.\"O only when both
.\"O .I device
.\"O and
.\"O .I dir
.\"O are specified.
再マウント機能は、
.B mount
コマンドが
.I fstab
でオプションが指定された場合に
動作する標準的な方法に従う。
これは、
.I device
と
.I dir
の両方が指定された場合に、\fBmount\fR が
.I fstab
(または
.IR mtab )
を読まないという意味である。
.sp
.in +4
.B "mount \-o remount,rw /dev/foo /dir"
.in
.sp
.\"O After this call all old mount options are replaced and arbitrary stuff from
.\"O .I fstab
.\"O (or
.\"O .IR mtab )
.\"O is ignored, except the loop= option which is internally
.\"O generated and maintained by the mount command.
この呼び出しの後、全ての古いマウントオプションは置き換えられ、
.I fstab
(または
.IR mtab )
から指定された任意のオプションは無視される。
ただし、内部的に生成され、mount コマンドで管理される
loop= オプションは例外である。
.sp
.in +4
.B "mount \-o remount,rw  /dir"
.in
.sp
.\"O After this call, mount reads
.\"O .I fstab
.\"O and merges these options with
.\"O the options from the command line (\fB\-o\fR).
.\"O If no mountpoint is found in
.\"O .IR fstab ,
.\"O then a remount with unspecified source is
.\"O allowed.
この呼び出しの後、mount コマンドは
.I fstab
を読んで、
コマンドラインからのオプション (\fB\-o\fR) とマージする。
.I fstab
にマウントポイントがない場合、マウント元を指定しない再マウントが
許可される。
.sp
.\"O .B mount
.\"O allows the use of \fB\-\-all\fR to remount all already mounted filesystems
.\"O which match a specified filter (\fB\-O\fR and \fB\-t\fR).  For example:
.B mount
は、指定されたフィルター (\fB\-O\fR と \fB\-t\fR) で選ばれた
全てのマウントされたファイルシステムを、\fB\-\-all\fR を使って再マウントできる。
例えば:
.sp
.in +4
.B "mount \-\-all \-o remount,ro \-t vfat"
.in
.sp
.\"O remounts all already mounted vfat filesystems in read-only mode. Each of the
.\"O filesystems is remounted by "mount \-o remount,ro /dir" semantic.
.\"O This means the
.\"O .B mount
.\"O command reads
.\"O .I fstab
.\"O or
.\"O .I mtab
.\"O and merges these options with the options
.\"O from the command line.
は、既にマウントされた読み込みのみのモードの vfat ファイルシステムを再マウントする。
各ファイルシステムは "mount \-o remount,ro /dir" で再マウントされる。
これは
.B mount
コマンドが
.I fstab
または
.I mtab
ファイルを読んで、ファイルに指定されたオプションと、
コマンドラインで指定されたオプションをマージすることを意味する。
.TP
.B ro
.\"O Mount the filesystem read-only.
ファイルシステムをリードオンリーでマウントする。
.TP
.B rw
.\"O Mount the filesystem read-write.
ファイルシステムを読み書き可能なモードでマウントする。
.TP
.B sync
.\"O All I/O to the filesystem should be done synchronously.  In the case of
.\"O media with a limited number of write cycles
.\"O (e.g.\& some flash drives), \fBsync\fR may cause life-cycle shortening.
そのファイルシステムに対する I/O がすべて同期的 (synchronous) に行われる。
書き込みサイクルが制限されたメディア (例えば、フラッシュドライブ) の場合、
\fBsync\fR はライフサイクルを短くする。
.TP
.B user
.\"O Allow an ordinary user to mount the filesystem.
.\"O The name of the mounting user is written to the
.\"O .I mtab
.\"O file (or to the private
.\"O libmount file in
.\"O .I /run/mount
.\"O on systems without a regular
.\"O .IR mtab )
.\"O so that this
.\"O same user can unmount the filesystem again.
.\"O This option implies the options
.\"O .BR noexec ", " nosuid ", and " nodev
.\"O (unless overridden by subsequent options, as in the option line
.\"O .BR user,exec,dev,suid ).
一般ユーザーでもファイルシステムをマウントできるようにする。
マウントを行ったユーザーの名前が
.I mtab
(または、通常の
.IR mtab
がないシステム上では、
.I /run/mount
内のプライベートな libmount ファイル)
に書き込まれ、そのユーザーがアンマウントできるようになる。
このオプションを指定すると、同時に
.BR noexec ", " nosuid ", " nodev
が指定されたことになる。
ただし続けて指定すれば上書きは可能。
すなわち
.B user,exec,dev,suid
のような行を指定すればよい。
.TP
.B nouser
.\"O Forbid an ordinary user to mount the filesystem.
.\"O This is the default; it does not imply any other options.
一般ユーザーがファイルシステムをマウントすることを禁止する。
これがデフォルトであり、他のオプションを暗黙のうちに指定しない。
.TP
.B users
.\"O Allow any user to mount and to unmount the filesystem, even
.\"O when some other ordinary user mounted it.
.\"O This option implies the options
.\"O .BR noexec ", " nosuid ", and " nodev
.\"O (unless overridden by subsequent options, as in the option line
.\"O .BR users,exec,dev,suid ).
.\"O even when some other ordinary user mounted it
全てのユーザーがファイルシステムをマウント・アンマウント
出来るようにする。
このオプションを指定すると、
一般ユーザーがマウントを行っていたとしても、同時に
.BR noexec ", " nosuid ", " nodev
が指定されたことになる
(ただし続けて指定すれば上書きは可能。
すなわち
.B users,exec,dev,suid
のような行を指定すればよい)。
.TP
.B X-*
.\"O All options prefixed with "X-" are interpreted as comments or as userspace
.\"O application-specific options.
.\"O These options are not stored in user space (e.g.,
.\"O .I mtab
.\"O file),
.\"O nor sent to the mount.\fItype\fR helpers nor to the
.\"O .BR mount (2)
.\"O system call.  The suggested format is \fBX-\fIappname\fR.\fIoption\fR.
"X-" をプレフィックスに付けた全てのオプションは、
コメント、またはユーザー空間のアプリケーション固有オプションとして
解釈される。
このオプションはユーザー空間 (例えば、
.I mtab
ファイル) には格納されず、
mount.\fItype\fR ヘルパーにも、
.BR mount (2)
システムコールにも渡されない。
推奨される形式は \fBX-\fIappname\fR.\fIoption\fR である。
.TP
.B x-*
.\"O The same as \fBX-*\fR options, but stored permanently in user space.
.\"O This means the options are also available for
.\"O .B umount
.\"O or other operations.  Note
.\"O that maintaining  mount options in user space is tricky,
.\"O because it's necessary use
.\"O libmount-based tools and there is no guarantee that the options will be always
.\"O available (for example after a move mount operation or in unshared namespace).
\fBX-*\fR と似ているが、ユーザー空間に永続的に格納する。
これは、そのオプションが
.B umount
または他の操作で利用できることを意味する。
マウントオプションをユーザー空間で管理するのはトリッキーである点に
注意すること。
libmount ベースのツールを使う必要があるが、
(例えば、move マウント操作の後や、または共有されない名前空間において)
オプションが常に利用可能である保証はない。

.\"O Note that before util-linux v2.30 the x-* options have not been maintained by
.\"O libmount and stored in user space (functionality was the same as for X-* now),
.\"O but due to the growing number of use-cases (in initrd, systemd etc.) the
.\"O functionality has been extended to keep existing
.\"O .I fstab
.\"O configurations usable
.\"O without a change.
util-linux v2.30 より前では、x-* オプションは
libmount で管理されず、ユーザー空間に格納されなかった
(機能的には今の X-* と同じである)。
しかし、(initrd, systemd などでの) 使い方が増えるに従い、
機能が拡張され、既存の
.I fstab
設定を変更せずに利用できるようになった。
.TP
.BR X-mount.mkdir [ = \fImode\fR ]
.\"O Allow to make a target directory (mountpoint) if it does not exit yet.
.\"O The optional argument
.\"O .I mode
.\"O specifies the filesystem access mode used for
.\"O .BR mkdir (2)
.\"O in octal notation.  The default mode is 0755.  This functionality is supported
.\"O only for root users or when mount executed without suid permissions.  The option
.\"O is also supported as x-mount.mkdir, this notation is deprecated since v2.30.
マウント先ディレクトリ (マウントポイント) が存在しない場合に、作成することを許可する。
オプションの引き数
.I mode
は、8 進数記法で、
.BR mkdir (2)
でファイルシステムのアクセスモードを指定するのに使われる。
デフォルトのモードは 0755 である。
このオプションは root ユーザー、または
mount が suid パーミッションなしで実行された場合にのみサポートされる。
このオプションは x-mount.mkdir としてもサポートされているが、
この記法は v2.30 以降では推奨されない。
.TP
.B nosymfollow
.\"O Do not follow symlinks when resolving paths.  Symlinks can still be created,
.\"O and
.\"O .BR readlink (1),
.\"O .BR readlink (2),
.\"O .BR realpath (1)
.\"O and
.\"O .BR realpath (3)
.\"O all still work properly.
パスの解決にシンボリックリンクを辿らない。
ただし、シンボリックリンクは作成可能で、
.BR readlink (1),
.BR readlink (2),
.BR realpath (1)
.BR realpath (3)
は正常に動作する。

.\"O .SH FILESYSTEM-SPECIFIC MOUNT OPTIONS
.SH ファイルシステム独自のマウントオプション
.\"O This section lists options that are specific to particular filesystems.
このセクションでは、特定のファイルシステムに固有のオプションを記載する。
.\"O Where possible, you should first consult filesystem-specific manual pages
.\"O for details.
詳細については、可能であれば、最初にファイルシステム固有のマニュアル
ページを当たるべきである。
.\"O Some of those pages are listed in the following table.
それらのページのいくつかを、以下の表に記載する。
.TS
lb lb
l l.
.\"O Filesystem(s)	Manual page
ファイルシステム	マニュアルページ
btrfs	\fBbtrfs\fP(5)
cifs	\fBmount.cifs\fP(8)
ext2, ext3, ext4	\fBext4\fP(5)
fuse	\fBfuse\fP(8)
nfs	\fBnfs\fP(5)
tmpfs	\fBtmpfs\fP(5)
xfs	\fBxfs\fP(5)
.TE
.PP
.\"O Note that some of the pages listed above might be available only
.\"O after you install the respective userland tools.
対応するユーザーランドのツールをインストールするしないと、
上記のページが入手できない点に注意すること。
.PP
.\"O The following options apply only to certain filesystems.
.\"O We sort them by filesystem.
.\"O All options follow the
.\"O .B \-o
.\"O flag.
以下のオプションは特定のファイルシステムにのみ適用される。
ファイルシステムの順に並べてある。
すべて
.B \-o
フラグに続けて指定する。
.PP
.\"O What options are supported depends a bit on the running kernel.
どのようなオプションがサポートされているかは、
実行されているカーネルに少々依存する。
.\"O Further information may be available in filesystem-specific
.\"O files in the kernel source subdirectory
.\"O .IR Documentation/filesystems .
より詳しい情報は、カーネルソースのサブディレクトリ
.I Documentation/filesystems
内の、ファイルシステム毎のファイルで入手できる。
.\"
.\"O .SS "Mount options for adfs"
.SS "adfs のマウントオプション"
.TP
.\"O \fBuid=\fP\,\fIvalue\fP and \fBgid=\fP\,\fIvalue\fP
\fBuid=\fP\,\fIvalue\fP と \fBgid=\fP\,\fIvalue\fP
.\"O Set the owner and group of the files in the filesystem (default: uid=gid=0).
このファイルシステムのファイルの所有者とグループを設定する
(デフォルトは uid=gid=0)。
.TP
.\"O \fBownmask=\fP\,\fIvalue\fP and \fBothmask=\fP\,\fIvalue\fP
\fBownmask=\fP\,\fIvalue\fP と \fBothmask=\fP\,\fIvalue\fP
.\"O Set the permission mask for ADFS 'owner' permissions and 'other' permissions,
.\"O respectively (default: 0700 and 0077, respectively).
それぞれ ADFS の「所有者」属性と「その他」属性に対する
パーミッションマスクを設定する
(デフォルトはそれぞれ 0700 と 0777)。
.\"O See also
.\"O .IR /usr/src/linux/Documentation/filesystems/adfs.rst .
.I /usr/src/linux/Documentation/filesystems/adfs.rst
も参照のこと。

.\"O .SS "Mount options for affs"
.SS "affs のマウントオプション"
.TP
.\"O \fBuid=\fP\,\fIvalue\fP and \fBgid=\fP\,\fIvalue\fP
\fBuid=\fP\,\fIvalue\fP と \fBgid=\fP\,\fIvalue\fP
.\"O Set the owner and group of the root of the filesystem (default: uid=gid=0,
.\"O but with option
.\"O .B uid
.\"O or
.\"O .B gid
.\"O without specified value, the UID and GID of the current process are taken).
ファイルシステムのルートの所有者とグループを設定する
(デフォルトは uid=gid=0。
ただしオプション
.B uid
や
.B gid
を値なしで指定すると、カレントプロセスの UID および GID が用いられる)。
.TP
.\"O \fBsetuid=\fP\,\fIvalue\fP and \fBsetgid=\fP\,\fIvalue\fP
\fBsetuid=\fP\,\fIvalue\fP と \fBsetgid=\fP\,\fIvalue\fP
.\"O Set the owner and group of all files.
すべてのファイルの所有者とグループを設定する。
.TP
.BI mode= value
.\"O Set the mode of all files to
.\"O .IR value " & 0777"
.\"O disregarding the original permissions.
.\"O Add search permission to directories that have read permission.
.\"O The value is given in octal.
すべてのファイルの許可属性を
.IR value " & 0777"
に設定する。
元の許可属性は無視される。
読み込みが許可されているディレクトリには検索許可の属性を付加する。
この値は 8 進数で与える。
.TP
.B protect
.\"O Do not allow any changes to the protection bits on the filesystem.
ファイルシステムの保護ビットへのいかなる変更も許可しない。
.TP
.B usemp
.\"O Set UID and GID of the root of the filesystem to the UID and GID
.\"O of the mount point upon the first sync or umount, and then
.\"O clear this option.  Strange...
ファイルシステムのルートの UID と GID を
マウントポイントの UID と GID に設定する。
ただしこの設定は最初の sync または umount の際に実行され、
その後にこのオプションはクリアされる。変なの。
.TP
.B verbose
.\"O Print an informational message for each successful mount.
それぞれのマウントが成功するごとにメッセージを表示する。
.TP
.BI prefix= string
.\"O Prefix used before volume name, when following a link.
リンクをたどる際にボリューム名の前に用いられるプレフィックス (prefix)。
.TP
.BI volume= string
.\"O Prefix (of length at most 30) used before '/' when following a symbolic link.
シンボリックリンクをたどる際に '/' の前に用いられるプレフィックス。
最長 30 文字。
.TP
.BI reserved= value
.\"O (Default: 2.) Number of unused blocks at the start of the device.
デバイススタート時の未使用ブロックの数。デフォルトは 2。
.TP
.BI root= value
.\"O Give explicitly the location of the root block.
ルートブロックの位置を明示的に与える。
.TP
.BI bs= value
.\"O Give blocksize.  Allowed values are 512, 1024, 2048, 4096.
ブロックサイズを与える。有効な値は 512, 1024, 2048, 4096 のいずれか。
.TP
.BR grpquota | noquota | quota | usrquota
.\"O These options are accepted but ignored.
.\"O (However, quota utilities may react to such strings in
.\"O .IR /etc/fstab .)
これらのオプションは指定可能であるが、単に無視される。
(但し、 quota ユーティリティは
.I /etc/fstab
にこのような文字列があると反応する)

.\"O .SS "Mount options for debugfs"
.SS "debugfs のマウントオプション"
.\"O The debugfs filesystem is a pseudo filesystem, traditionally mounted on
.\"O .IR /sys/kernel/debug .
.\"O .\" or just /debug
.\"O .\" present since 2.6.11
.\"O As of kernel version 3.4, debugfs has the following options:
debugfs ファイルシステムは擬似 (pseudo) ファイルシステムであり、
通例としては
.I /sys/kernel/debug
にマウントされる。
.\" または /debug
.\" が 2.6.11 以降には存在する。
カーネルバージョン 3.4 では、debugfs は以下のオプションがある:
.TP
.BI uid= n ", gid=" n
.\"O Set the owner and group of the mountpoint.
マウントポイントの所有者とグループを設定する。
.TP
.BI mode= value
.\"O Sets the mode of the mountpoint.
マウントポイントのモードを設定する。

.\"O .SS "Mount options for devpts"
.SS "devpts のマウントオプション"
.\"O The devpts filesystem is a pseudo filesystem, traditionally mounted on
.\"O .IR /dev/pts .
.\"O In order to acquire a pseudo terminal, a process opens
.\"O .IR /dev/ptmx ;
.\"O the number of the pseudo terminal is then made available to the process
.\"O and the pseudo terminal slave can be accessed as
.\"O .IR /dev/pts/ <number>.
.\"nakano: 仮想の方がいい? でも仮想は virtual?
devpts ファイルシステムは擬似ファイルシステムで、
通例としては
.I /dev/pts
にマウントされる。プロセスは擬似端末 (pseudo terminal) を取得するために、
.I /dev/ptmx
をオープンする。
するとそのプロセスは番号を通して擬似端末を使えるようになり、
擬似端末のスレーブに
.IR /dev/pts/ <number>
経由でアクセスできるようになる。
.\"nakano: 勉強してないんでよくわからない...
.TP
.\"O \fBuid=\fP\,\fIvalue\fP and \fBgid=\fP\,\fIvalue\fP
\fBuid=\fP\,\fIvalue\fP と \fBgid=\fP\,\fIvalue\fP
.\"O This sets the owner or the group of newly created pseudo terminals to
.\"O the specified values.  When nothing is specified, they will
.\"O be set to the UID and GID of the creating process.
.\"O For example, if there is a tty group with GID 5, then
.\"O .B gid=5
.\"O will cause newly created pseudo terminals to belong to the tty group.
新たに作成される擬似端末の所有者と所有グループを設定する。
何も指定しないと、作成したプロセスの UID と GID になる。
例えば tty グループの GID が 5 であったとすると、
.B gid=5
とすれば新たに作成された擬似端末は tty グループに属することになる。
.TP
.BI mode= value
.\"O Set the mode of newly created pseudo terminals to the specified value.
.\"O The default is 0600.
.\"O A value of
.\"O .B mode=620
.\"O and
.\"O .B gid=5
.\"O makes "mesg y" the default on newly created pseudo terminals.
新たに作成される擬似端末のモードを設定する。
デフォルトは 0600 である。
.B mode=620
と
.B gid=5
を設定すると、新たに生成される擬似端末は、
"mesg y" がデフォルトになる。
.TP
\fBnewinstance\fP
.\"O Create a private instance of the devpts filesystem, such that
.\"O indices of pseudo terminals allocated in this new instance are
.\"O independent of indices created in other instances of devpts.
devpts ファイルシステムのプライベートインスタンスを作成する。
この新しいインスタンスに確保された擬似端末のインデックスは、
他の devpts のインスタンスのインデックスとは、独立である。

.\"O All mounts of devpts without this
.\"O .B newinstance
.\"O option share the same set of pseudo terminal indices (i.e., legacy mode).
.\"O Each mount of devpts with the
.\"O .B newinstance
.\"O option has a private set of pseudo terminal indices.
この
.B newinstance
オプションを指定しない devpts の全てのマウントは、
同じ擬似端末のインデックスを共有する (つまり、レガシーモード)。
.B newinstance
オプションを指定した devpts のマウントは、
擬似端末のインデックスのプライベートなセットを持つ。

.\"O This option is mainly used to support containers in the
.\"O Linux kernel.  It is implemented in Linux kernel versions
.\"O starting with 2.6.29.  Further, this mount option is valid
.\"O only if CONFIG_DEVPTS_MULTIPLE_INSTANCES is enabled in the
.\"O kernel configuration.
このオプションは主に Linux カーネルでコンテナをサポートするために使われる。
これは Linux カーネルバージョン 2.6.29 以降で実装されている。
さらに、このオプションはカーネル設定で
CONFIG_DEVPTS_MULTIPLE_INSTANCES が有効にされている場合にのみ、利用できる。

.\"O To use this option effectively,
.\"O .I /dev/ptmx
.\"O must be a symbolic link to
.\"O .IR pts/ptmx .
.\"O See
.\"O .I Documentation/filesystems/devpts.txt
.\"O in the Linux kernel source tree for details.
このオプションを効率的に使うには、
.I /dev/ptmx
は
.I pts/ptmx
のシンボリックリンクであるべきである。
詳細は Linux カーネルソースツリーの
.I Documentation/filesystems/devpts.txt
を参照すること。
.TP
.BI ptmxmode= value
.\"O 
.\"O Set the mode for the new
.\"O .I ptmx
.\"O device node in the devpts filesystem.
devpts ファイルシステムの新しい
.I ptmx
デバイスノードのモードを設定する。

.\"O With the support for multiple instances of devpts (see
.\"O .B newinstance
.\"O option above), each instance has a private
.\"O .I ptmx
.\"O node in the root of the devpts filesystem (typically
.\"O .IR /dev/pts/ptmx ).
devpts の複数インスタンスをサポート
(上記の
.B newinstance
オプションを参照) すると、
各インスタンスはプライベートの
.I ptmx
ノードを devpts ファイルシステムのルート
(典型的には
.IR /dev/pts/ptmx )
に持つ。

.\"O For compatibility with older versions of the kernel, the
.\"O default mode of the new
.\"O .I ptmx
.\"O node is 0000.
古いバージョンのカーネルとの互換性のため、新規作成された
.I ptmx
ノードのデフォルトモードは 0000 である。

.\"O .BI ptmxmode= value
.\"O specifies a more useful mode for the
.\"O .I ptmx
.\"O node and is highly recommended when the
.\"O .B newinstance
.\"O option is specified.
.BI ptmxmode= value
は
.I ptmx
ノードに対して、より役に立つモードを指定し、
.B newinstance
オプションが指定された場合に、強く推奨される。

.\"O This option is only implemented in Linux kernel versions
.\"O starting with 2.6.29.  Further, this option is valid only if
.\"O CONFIG_DEVPTS_MULTIPLE_INSTANCES is enabled in the kernel
.\"O configuration.
これは Linux カーネルバージョン 2.6.29 以降で実装されている。
さらに、このオプションはカーネル設定で
CONFIG_DEVPTS_MULTIPLE_INSTANCES が有効にされている場合にのみ、利用できる。

.\"O .SS "Mount options for fat"
.SS "fat のマウントオプション"
.\"O (Note:
.\"O .I fat
.\"O is not a separate filesystem, but a common part of the
.\"O .IR msdos ,
.\"O .I umsdos
.\"O and
.\"O .I vfat
.\"O filesystems.)
(注意:
.I fat
は独立したファイルシステムではなく、
.IR msdos ,
.IR umsdos ,
.I vfat
各ファイルシステムの共通部分である。)
.TP
.BR blocksize= { 512 | 1024 | 2048 }
.\"O Set blocksize (default 512).  This option is obsolete.
ブロックサイズを設定する (デフォルトは 512)。
このオプションは古い。
.TP
.\"O \fBuid=\fP\,\fIvalue\fP and \fBgid=\fP\,\fIvalue\fP
\fBuid=\fP\,\fIvalue\fP と\fBgid=\fP\,\fIvalue\fP
.\"O Set the owner and group of all files.
.\"O (Default: the UID and GID of the current process.)
すべてのファイルの所有者とグループを設定する
(デフォルトはカレントプロセスの UID と GID)。
.TP
.BI umask= value
.\"O Set the umask (the bitmask of the permissions that are
.\"O .B not
.\"O present).  The default is the umask of the current process.
.\"O The value is given in octal.
umask を設定する (umask とは許可属性のビットマスクで、
立て\fBない\fRビットを立てたもの)。
デフォルトはカレントプロセスの umask。値は 8 進数で与える。
.TP
.BI dmask= value
.\"O Set the umask applied to directories only.
.\"O The default is the umask of the current process.
.\"O The value is given in octal.
ディレクトリにのみ適用される umask を設定する。
デフォルトはカレントプロセスの umask。
値は 8 進数で与える。
.TP
.BI fmask= value
.\"O Set the umask applied to regular files only.
.\"O The default is the umask of the current process.
.\"O The value is given in octal.
通常のファイルにのみ適用される umask を設定する。
デフォルトはカレントプロセスの umask。
値は 8 進数で与える。
.TP
.BI allow_utime= value
.\"O This option controls the permission check of mtime/atime.
このオプションは mtime/atime の権限チェックを制御する。
.RS
.TP
.B 20
.\"O If current process is in group of file's group ID, you can change timestamp.
カレントプロセスがファイルのグループ ID のグループである場合、
タイムスタンプを変更できる。
.TP
.B 2
.\"O Other users can change timestamp.
他のユーザーがタイムスタンプを変更できる。
.PP
.\"O The default is set from `dmask' option. (If the directory is writable,
.\"O .BR utime (2)
.\"O is also allowed.  I.e.\& \s+3~\s0dmask & 022)
デフォルトは `dmask' オプションから設定する
(ディレクトリが書き込み可能の場合、
.BR utime (2)
も許可されている。
つまり\& \s+3~\s0dmask & 022 である。)

.\"O Normally
.\"O .BR utime (2)
.\"O checks that the current process is owner of the file, or that it has the
.\"O .B CAP_FOWNER
.\"O capability.  But FAT filesystems don't have UID/GID on disk, so the
.\"O normal check is too inflexible.  With this option you can relax it.
通常
.BR utime (2)
はカレントプロセスがファイルの所有者であるかをチェックし、
または
.B CAP_FOWNER
ケーパビリティがあるかをチェックする。
しかし、FAT ファイルシステムはディスク上に UID/GID を持たないので、
通常のチェックはとても柔軟性がない。
このオプションを使うと、それを簡単にできる。
.RE
.TP
.BI check= value
.\"O Three different levels of pickiness can be chosen:
3 つの異なるレベルの厳密さが選択できる。
.RS
.TP
.BR r [ elaxed ]
.\"O Upper and lower case are accepted and equivalent, long name parts are
.\"O truncated (e.g.\&
.\"O .I verylongname.foobar
.\"O becomes
.\"O .IR verylong.foo ),
.\"O leading and embedded spaces are accepted in each name part (name and extension).
大文字と小文字を受け付け、それぞれ等価と見なす。
ロングネームの部分は切り捨てられる
(すなわち
.I verylongname.foobar
は
.I verylong.foo
となる)。
スペース文字を名前のそれぞれの部分 (本体と拡張子) に用いることができる。
.TP
.BR n [ ormal ]
.\"O Like "relaxed", but many special characters (*, ?, <, spaces, etc.) are
.\"O rejected.  This is the default.
"relaxed" と似ているが、多くの特殊文字 (*, ?, <, スペースなど) は
用いることができない。デフォルト。
.TP
.BR s [ trict ]
.\"O Like "normal", but names that contain long parts or special characters
.\"O that are sometimes used on Linux but are not accepted by MS-DOS
.\"O (+, =, etc.) are rejected.
"normal" と似ているが、名前には長い部分を含むことができない。
また Linux では用いることができるが MS-DOS では受け入れられない特殊文字
(+, =, など) を用いることができない。
.RE
.TP
.BI codepage= value
.\"O Sets the codepage for converting to shortname characters on FAT
.\"O and VFAT filesystems.  By default, codepage 437 is used.
FAT や VFAT ファイルシステムで、短いファイル名に変換するときに
用いる文字のコードページを設定する。
デフォルトではコードページ 437 が用いられる。
.TP
.BI conv= mode
.\"O This option is obsolete and may fail or be ignored.
このオプションは古く、失敗するか、無視される。
.TP
.BI cvf_format= module
.\"O Forces the driver to use the CVF (Compressed Volume File) module
.\"O .RI cvf_ module
.\"O instead of auto-detection.  If the kernel supports kmod, the
.\"O cvf_format=xxx option also controls on-demand CVF module loading.
.\"O This option is obsolete.
自動検知の結果ではなく、CVF (Compressed Volume File:
圧縮ボリュームファイル) モジュール
.RI cvf_ module
を使うよう、ドライバに強制する。
カーネルが kmod をサポートしていれば、
cvf_format=xxx オプションとしてもオンデマンドで CVF モジュールをロードできる。
このオプションは古い。
.TP
.BI cvf_option= option
.\"O Option passed to the CVF module.  This option is obsolete.
CVF モジュールに渡すオプション。
このオプションは古い。
.TP
.B debug
.\"O Turn on the
.\"O .I debug
.\"O flag.  A version string and a list of filesystem parameters will be
.\"O printed (these data are also printed if the parameters appear to be
.\"O inconsistent).
.I debug
フラグを ON にする。
バージョン文字とファイルシステムのパラメータが表示される
(これらのデータはパラメータが一貫していないような場合にも表示される)。
.TP
.B discard
.\"O If set, causes discard/TRIM commands to be issued to the block device
.\"O when blocks are freed.  This is useful for SSD devices and
.\"O sparse/thinly-provisioned LUNs.
このオプションが設定されると、ブロックが解放されると、
ブロックデバイスに discard/TRIM コマンドが発行される。
これは SSD デバイスと、スパース/thin プロビジョニングされた LUN で役立つ。
.TP
.B dos1xfloppy
.\"O If set, use a fallback default BIOS Parameter Block configuration, determined
.\"O by backing device size.  These static parameters match defaults assumed by DOS
.\"O 1.x for 160 kiB, 180 kiB, 320 kiB, and 360 kiB floppies and floppy images.
このオプションが設定されると、バックのデバイスサイズで決定される、
フォールバックのデフォルト BIOS パラメータブロック設定を使う。
これらの固定値のパラメータは、DOS 1.x で
160 kiB, 180 kiB, 320 kiB, 360 kiB フロッピーとフロッピーイメージに
仮定されるデフォルト値にマッチする。
.TP
.BR errors= { panic | continue | remount-ro }
.\"O Specify FAT behavior on critical errors: panic, continue without doing
.\"O anything, or remount the partition in read-only mode (default behavior).
致命的なエラーの場合の FAT の挙動を指定する。
パニック、何もせずに継続する、パーティションを読み込みのみの
モードで再マウントする (デフォルトの挙動) のいずれかである。
.TP
.BR fat= { 12 | 16 | 32 }
.\"O Specify either a 12, 16 or 32 bit fat.  This overrides
.\"O the automatic FAT type detection routine.  Use with caution!
12 ビット fat か 16 ビット fat か 32 ビット fat かを特定する。
これは FAT 形式の自動認識ルーチンによる設定を上書きする。
用いる際には注意すること。
.TP
.BI iocharset= value
.\"O Character set to use for converting between 8 bit characters
.\"O and 16 bit Unicode characters.  The default is iso8859-1.
.\"O Long filenames are stored on disk in Unicode format.
8 ビットの文字を 16 ビットの Unicode 文字に変換する (あるいはその逆)
ときに用いる文字セット (character set)。デフォルトは iso8859-1 である。
長いファイル名は、ディスクには Unicode フォーマットで保存されている。
.TP
.BR nfs= { stale_rw | nostale_ro }
.\"O Enable this only if you want to export the FAT filesystem over NFS.
FAT ファイルシステムを NFS でエクスポートする場合にのみ、有効にする。

.BR stale_rw :
.\"O This option maintains an index (cache) of directory inodes which is used by the
.\"O nfs-related code to improve look-ups.  Full file operations (read/write) over
.\"O NFS are supported but with cache eviction at NFS server, this could result in
.\"O spurious
.\"O .B ESTALE
.\"O errors.
このオプションを指定すると、検索を改善する NFS に関連するコードで
使われるディレクトリ i ノードのインデックス (キャッシュ) を管理する。
NFS 上の完全なファイル操作 (読み書き) がサポートされるが、
NFS サーバーでのキャッシュ追い出しが起こり、誤った
.B ESTALE
エラーが起きる可能性がある。

.BR nostale_ro :
.\"O This option bases the inode number and file handle
.\"O on the on-disk location of a file in the FAT directory entry.
このオプションは、i ノード番号と、
FAT ディレクトリエントリにおけるディスク上のファイルの場所の
ファイルハンドルに基づいている。
.\"O This ensures that
.\"O .B ESTALE
.\"O will not be returned after a file is
.\"O evicted from the inode cache.  However, it means that operations
.\"O such as rename, create and unlink could cause file handles that
.\"O previously pointed at one file to point at a different file,
.\"O potentially causing data corruption.  For this reason, this
.\"O option also mounts the filesystem readonly.
これは、ファイルが i ノードキャッシュから追い出されても、
.B ESTALE
が返されないことを保証する。
しかし、リネーム・作成・アンリンクといった操作では、
ファイルハンドルが前に指していたファイルから別のファイルを指すので、
データ破壊を起こす可能性がある。
こういった理由により、このオプションもファイルシステムを
読み込みのみでマウントする。

.\"O To maintain backward compatibility, '\-o nfs' is also accepted,
.\"O defaulting to
.\"O .BR stale_rw .
後方互換を保つために '\-o nfs' も受け付けられ、デフォルトは
.B stale_rw
である。
.TP
.B tz=UTC
.\"O This option disables the conversion of timestamps
.\"O between local time (as used by Windows on FAT) and UTC
.\"O (which Linux uses internally).  This is particularly
.\"O useful when mounting devices (like digital cameras)
.\"O that are set to UTC in order to avoid the pitfalls of
.\"O local time.
このオプションは (FAT 上の Windows で使われる) ローカル時間と
(Linux が内部的に使う) UTC のタイムスタンプの変換を行わない。
これはローカル時間の落とし穴を避けるため UTC に設定するので、
(デジタルカメラのような) デバイスをマウントする際に特に役立つ。
.TP
.BI time_offset= minutes
.\"O Set offset for conversion of timestamps from local time used by FAT to UTC.
.\"O I.e.,
.\"O .I minutes
.\"O will be subtracted from each timestamp to convert it to UTC used
.\"O internally by Linux.  This is useful when the time zone set in the kernel via
.\"O .BR settimeofday (2)
.\"O is not the time zone used by the filesystem.  Note
.\"O that this option still does not provide correct time stamps in all cases in
.\"O presence of DST - time stamps in a different DST setting will be off by one
.\"O hour.
FAT で使われるローカル時間から UTC へのタイムスタンプ変換のオフセットを設定する。
つまり、Linux が内部的に使う UTC に変換するために、
.I minutes
を各タイムスタンプから差し引く。
これは、
.BR settimeofday (2)
でカーネルに設定されているタイムゾーンが、
ファイルシステムで使われているタイムゾーンと異なる場合に役立つ。
このオプションは、夏時間 (DST) が存在する場合、
正しい時間を提供できない点に注意すること。
異なる夏時間設定のタイムスタンプでは、1 時間ずれるだろう。
.TP
.B quiet
.\"O Turn on the
.\"O .I quiet
.\"O flag.  Attempts to chown or chmod files do not return errors,
.\"O although they fail.  Use with caution!
.I quiet
フラグを ON にする。
ファイルを chown や chmod しようとしたときにもエラーを返さず、単に失敗する。
用いる際には注意すること！
.TP
.B rodir
.\"O FAT has the ATTR_RO (read-only) attribute.  On Windows, the ATTR_RO of the
.\"O directory will just be ignored, and is used only by applications as a flag
.\"O (e.g.\& it's set for the customized folder).
FAT には ATTR_RO (読み込みのみ) 属性がある。
Windows ではディレクトリの ATTR_RO は単純に無視され、
アプリケーションでのみフラグとして使われる
(例えば、カスタマイズされたフォルダとして使われる)。

.\"O If you want to use ATTR_RO as read-only flag even for the directory, set this
.\"O option.
ATTR_RO をディレクトリの読み込みのみのフラグとして使いたい場合、
このオプションを設定すること。
.TP
.B showexec
.\"O If set, the execute permission bits of the file will be allowed only if
.\"O the extension part of the name is \&.EXE, \&.COM, or \&.BAT.  Not set by default.
このオプションが設定されると、ファイル名の拡張子部分が
\&.EXE, \&.COM, \&.BAT である場合にのみ、ファイルの実行権限ビットが許可される。
これは、デフォルトでは設定されない。
.TP
.B sys_immutable
.\"O If set, ATTR_SYS attribute on FAT is handled as IMMUTABLE flag on Linux.
.\"O Not set by default.
このオプションが設定されると、FAT の ATTR_SYS 属性を
Linux の IMMUTABLE フラグとして扱う。
これは、デフォルトでは設定されない。
.TP
.B flush
.\"O If set, the filesystem will try to flush to disk more early than normal.
.\"O Not set by default.
このオプションが設定されると、ファイルシステムは通常より早い
タイミングでディスクに書き出す。
これは、デフォルトでは設定されない。
.TP
.B usefree
.\"O Use the "free clusters" value stored on FSINFO.  It'll
.\"O be used to determine number of free clusters without
.\"O scanning disk.  But it's not used by default, because
.\"O recent Windows don't update it correctly in some
.\"O case.  If you are sure the "free clusters" on FSINFO is
.\"O correct, by this option you can avoid scanning disk.
FSINFO に格納された「空きクラスタ (free clusters)」の値を使う。
これは、ディスクをスキャンせずに空きクラスタの数を決定するのに
使われる。
現在の Windows では、この情報を正しく更新しない場合があるので、
デフォルトでは使われない。
FSINFO に格納された「空きクラスタ」が正しいという保証がある場合、
このオプションでディスクのスキャンが回避できる。
.TP
.BR dots ", " nodots ", " dotsOK= [ yes | no ]
.\"O Various misguided attempts to force Unix or DOS conventions
.\"O onto a FAT filesystem.
FAT ファイルシステムに Unix または DOS のしきたりを
強制しようとするさまざまな試み。
おそらくは用いるべきでない。

.\"O .SS "Mount options for hfs"
.SS "hfs のマウントオプション"
.TP
.BI creator= cccc ", type=" cccc
.\"O Set the creator/type values as shown by the MacOS finder
.\"O used for creating new files.  Default values: '????'.
新しいファイルを作成する際に、
MacOS の finder で表示されるクリエータとタイプを設定する。
デフォルト値は '????' である。
.TP
.BI uid= n ", gid=" n
.\"O Set the owner and group of all files.
.\"O (Default: the UID and GID of the current process.)
すべてのファイルの所有者とグループを設定する
(デフォルトはカレントプロセスの UID と GID)。
.TP
.BI dir_umask= n ", file_umask=" n ", umask=" n
.\"O Set the umask used for all directories, all regular files, or all
.\"O files and directories.  Defaults to the umask of the current process.
全てのディレクトリ・全ての通常ファイル・
全てのファイルとディレクトリに対して使用される umask を設定する。
デフォルトはカレントプロセスの umask である。
.TP
.BI session= n
.\"O Select the CDROM session to mount.
.\"O Defaults to leaving that decision to the CDROM driver.
.\"O This option will fail with anything but a CDROM as underlying device.
マウントする CDROM のセッションを選択する。
デフォルトでは CDROM ドライバに決定を任せる。
下層にあるデバイスが CDROM でない場合、このオプションは失敗する。
.TP
.BI part= n
.\"O Select partition number n from the device.
.\"O Only makes sense for CDROMs.
.\"O Defaults to not parsing the partition table at all.
デバイスのパーティション番号 n を選択する。
CDROM に対してのみ意味を持つ。
デフォルトではパーティションテーブルを全く解釈しない。
.TP
.B quiet
.\"O Don't complain about invalid mount options.
不正なマウントオプションに対して苦情を出さない。

.\"O .SS "Mount options for hpfs"
.SS "hpfs のマウントオプション"
.TP
.\"O \fBuid=\fP\,\fIvalue\fP and \fBgid=\fP\,\fIvalue\fP
\fBuid=\fP\,\fIvalue\fP と \fBgid=\fP\,\fIvalue\fP
.\"O Set the owner and group of all files. (Default: the UID and GID
.\"O of the current process.)
すべてのファイルの所有者とグループを設定する
(デフォルトはカレントプロセスの UID と GID)。
.TP
.BI umask= value
.\"O Set the umask (the bitmask of the permissions that are
.\"O .B not
.\"O present).  The default is the umask of the current process.
.\"O The value is given in octal.
umask を設定する (umask とは許可属性のビットマスクで、立って
.B いない
ビットを立てたもの)。
デフォルトはカレントプロセスの umask。
値は 8 進数で与える。
.TP
.BR case= { lower | asis }
.\"O Convert all files names to lower case, or leave them.
.\"O (Default:
.\"O .BR case=lower .)
すべてのファイルのファイル名を小文字に変換するか、
あるいはそのままにするかを指定する
(デフォルトは
.BR case=lower )
.TP
.BI conv= mode
.\"O This option is obsolete and may fail or being ignored.
このオプションは古く、失敗するか、無視される。
.TP
.B nocheck
.\"O Do not abort mounting when certain consistency checks fail.
ファイルシステムの整合性チェックに失敗しても、マウントを中断しない。

.\"O .SS "Mount options for iso9660"
.SS "iso9660 のマウントオプション"
.\"O ISO 9660 is a standard describing a filesystem structure to be used
.\"O on CD-ROMs. (This filesystem type is also seen on some DVDs.  See also the
.\"O .I udf
.\"O filesystem.)
ISO 9660 は CD-ROM で使われているファイルシステム構造を記述している。
(このファイルシステムタイプは DVD で使われていることもある。
.I udf
ファイルシステムも参照すること。)

.\"O Normal
.\"O .I iso9660
.\"O filenames appear in an 8.3 format (i.e., DOS-like restrictions on filename
.\"O length), and in addition all characters are in upper case.  Also there is
.\"O no field for file ownership, protection, number of links, provision for
.\"O block/character devices, etc.
.I iso9660
における通常のファイル名は 8.3 形式である
(すなわちファイル名の長さに関しては DOS と同じ制限)。
またすべての文字は大文字でなければならない。
また所有者や保護属性、リンク数、ブロックデバイスか
キャラクタデバイスかなどを表すフィールドも存在しない。

.\"O Rock Ridge is an extension to iso9660 that provides all of these UNIX-like
.\"O features.  Basically there are extensions to each directory record that
.\"O supply all of the additional information, and when Rock Ridge is in use,
.\"O the filesystem is indistinguishable from a normal UNIX filesystem (except
.\"O that it is read-only, of course).
Rock Ridge は iso9660 の拡張で、上に示した UNIX 的機能をすべて与える。
基本的にはそれぞれのディレクトリレコードを拡張して、
付加的な情報を与えるものである。
Rock Ridge が用いられると、ファイルシステムは通常の 
UNIX ファイルシステムとは区別できなくなる
(もちろんリードオンリーであることを除いて、だが)。
.TP
.B norock
.\"O Disable the use of Rock Ridge extensions, even if available.  Cf.\&
.\"O .BR map .
Rock Ridge 拡張が利用できる場合でもこれを無効にする。
.B map
も参照のこと。
.TP
.B nojoliet
.\"O Disable the use of Microsoft Joliet extensions, even if available.  Cf.\&
.\"O .BR map .
Microsoft Joliet 拡張が利用できる場合でもこれを無効にする。
.B map
も参照のこと。
.TP
.BR check=r[elaxed] " / " check=s[trict]
.\"O With
.\"O .BR check=relaxed ,
.\"O a filename is first converted to lower case before doing the lookup.
.\"O This is probably only meaningful together with
.\"O .B norock
.\"O and
.\"O .BR map=normal .
.\"O (Default:
.\"O .BR check=strict .)
.BR check=relaxed
が指定されると、ファイル名はまず小文字に変換されてから照合される。
これは
.B norock
および
.B map=normal
とともに用いた場合にだけ意味がある。
(デフォルトは
.BR check=strict 。)
.TP
.\"O \fBuid=\fP\,\fIvalue\fP and \fBgid=\fP\,\fIvalue\fP
\fBuid=\fP\,\fIvalue\fP と \fBgid=\fP\,\fIvalue\fP
.\"O Give all files in the filesystem the indicated user or group id,
.\"O possibly overriding the information found in the Rock Ridge extensions.
.\"O (Default:
.\"O .BR uid=0,gid=0 .)
ファイルシステム中のすべてのファイルのユーザー id、
グループ id を設定する。
Rock Ridge 拡張で指定されている情報を上書きできる。
デフォルトは
.BR uid=0,gid=0 。
.TP
.BR map= { n [ ormal ]| o [ ff ]| a [ corn ]}
.\"O For non-Rock Ridge volumes, normal name translation maps upper
.\"O to lower case ASCII, drops a trailing `;1', and converts `;' to `.'.
.\"O With
.\"O .B map=off
.\"O no name translation is done.  See
.\"O .BR norock .
.\"O (Default:
.\"O .BR map=normal .)
Rock Ridge 拡張がされていないボリュームに対して normal が指定されると、
ファイル名の大文字が小文字の ASCII にマップされ、
最後の `;1' は削除され、`;' はすべて `.' に変換される。
.B map=off
が指定されると、ファイル名の変換は行わない。
.BR norock を見よ。
デフォルトは
.BR map=normal 。
.\"O .B map=acorn
.\"O is like
.\"O .B map=normal
.\"O but also apply Acorn extensions if present.
.B map=acorn
は
.B map=normal
と似ているが、Acorn 拡張があればそれを適用する。
.TP
.BI mode= value
.\"O For non-Rock Ridge volumes, give all files the indicated mode.
.\"O (Default: read and execute permission for everybody.)
.\"O Octal mode values require a leading 0.
Rock Ridge 拡張がされていないボリュームに対して、
すべてのファイルのモードを指定された値にする。
(デフォルトは、すべてのユーザーに対する読み込みと実行属性。)
8 進数は 0 で始める必要がある。
.TP
.B unhide
.\"O Also show hidden and associated files.
hidden 属性のファイルや、それに関連付けられたファイルも表示する。
.\"O (If the ordinary files and the associated or hidden files have
.\"O the same filenames, this may make the ordinary files inaccessible.)	
(通常のファイルがそれに関連付けられたファイルまたは hidden 属性のファイルと
同じファイル名である場合、通常のファイルはアクセスできなくなる。)
.TP
.BR block= { 512 | 1024 | 2048 }
.\"O Set the block size to the indicated value.
.\"O (Default:
.\"O .BR block=1024 .)
ブロックサイズを指定する。デフォルトは
.BR block=1024 。
.TP
.BI conv= mode
.\"O This option is obsolete and may fail or being ignored.
このオプションは古く、失敗するか、無視される。
.TP
.B cruft
.\"O If the high byte of the file length contains other garbage,
.\"O set this mount option to ignore the high order bits of the file length.
.\"O This implies that a file cannot be larger than 16\ MB.
ファイルサイズの上位バイトがゴミを含んでいる場合、
このオプションを指定することで上位バイトを無視できる。
このオプションを指定すると、ファイルの大きさは 16\ MB に制限される。
.TP
.BI session= x
.\"O Select number of session on multisession CD.
マルチセッション CD でのセッション数を選択する。
.TP
.BI sbsector= xxx
.\"O Session begins from sector xxx.
セッションをセクタ xxx から始める。
.LP
.\"O The following options are the same as for vfat and specifying them only makes
.\"O sense when using discs encoded using Microsoft's Joliet extensions.
以下のオプションは vfat のものと同じで、
Microsoft Joliet 拡張でエンコードされた
ディスクを使うときにしか意味がない。
.TP
.BI iocharset= value
.\"O Character set to use for converting 16 bit Unicode characters on CD
.\"O to 8 bit characters.  The default is iso8859-1.
CD 上の 16 ビットの Unicode 文字を
8 ビットの文字に変換するときに用いる文字セット。
デフォルトは iso8859-1 である。
.TP
.B utf8
.\"O Convert 16 bit Unicode characters on CD to UTF-8.
CD 上の 16 ビットの Unicode 文字を UTF-8 に変換する。

.\"O .SS "Mount options for jfs"
.SS "jfs のマウントオプション"
.TP
.BI iocharset= name
.\"O Character set to use for converting from Unicode to ASCII.  The default is
.\"O to do no conversion.  Use
.\"O .B iocharset=utf8
.\"O for UTF8 translations.  This requires CONFIG_NLS_UTF8 to be set in
.\"O the kernel
.\"O .I ".config"
.\"O file.
Unicode から ASCII に変換する際に使う文字セット。
デフォルトでは変換を行わない。
UTF8 変換を行う場合は、
.B iocharset=utf8
を使うこと。
これを行うには、カーネルの
.I ".config"
ファイルに CONFIG_NLS_UTF8 が設定されている必要がある。
.TP
.BI resize= value
.\"O Resize the volume to
.\"O .I value
.\"O blocks.  JFS only supports growing a volume, not shrinking it.  This option
.\"O is only valid during a remount, when the volume is mounted read-write.  The
.\"O .B resize
.\"O keyword with no value will grow the volume to the full size of the partition.
ボリュームを
.I value
ブロックに変更する。
JFS ではボリュームを増やすことのみがサポートされており、
減らすことはサポートされていない。
ボリュームが読み書き可能でマウントされている場合、
このオプションは再マウントの間のみ有効である。
.B resize
キーワードに値を指定しないと、
ボリュームはパーティションの最大サイズまで増やされる。
.TP
.B nointegrity
.\"O Do not write to the journal.  The primary use of this option is to allow
.\"O for higher performance when restoring a volume from backup media.  The
.\"O integrity of the volume is not guaranteed if the system abnormally ends.
ジャーナルに書き込まない。
このオプションの主な目的は、
バックアップメディアからボリュームを復旧する際に、
性能の向上を可能にすることである。
システムが異常終了した場合、ボリュームの完全性は保証されない。
.TP
.B integrity
.\"O Default.  Commit metadata changes to the journal.  Use this option to remount
.\"O a volume where the
.\"O .B nointegrity
.\"O option was previously specified in order to restore normal behavior.
デフォルト。
メタデータの変更をジャーナルに記録する。
以前に
.B nointegrity
オプションが指定されたボリュームを通常の状態に戻すために
再マウントするときは、このオプションを使用すること。
.TP
.BR errors= { continue | remount-ro | panic }
.\"O Define the behavior when an error is encountered.
.\"O (Either ignore errors and just mark the filesystem erroneous and continue,
.\"O or remount the filesystem read-only, or panic and halt the system.)
エラーが起こったときの振る舞いを指定する。
(エラーを無視し、ファイルシステムに問題があることを記録だけして続ける /
ファイルシステムをリードオンリーでマウントしなおす /
パニックを起こしてシステムを停止する)
.TP
.BR noquota | quota | usrquota | grpquota
.\"O These options are accepted but ignored.
これらのオプションは指定可能であるが、単に無視される。

.\"O .SS "Mount options for msdos"
.SS "msdos のマウントオプション"
.\"O See mount options for fat.
.\"O If the
.\"O .I msdos
.\"O filesystem detects an inconsistency, it reports an error and sets the file
.\"O system read-only.  The filesystem can be made writable again by remounting
.\"O it.
fat のマウントオプションを見よ。
.I msdos
ファイルシステムに不整合が発見されるとエラーが報告され、
ファイルシステムはリードオンリーとなる。
再マウントすることによって書き込み可能にすることができる。

.\"O .SS "Mount options for ncpfs"
.SS "ncpfs のマウントオプション"
.\"O Just like
.\"O .IR nfs ", the " ncpfs
.\"O implementation expects a binary argument (a
.\"O .IR "struct ncp_mount_data" )
.\"O to the mount system call.  This argument is constructed by
.\"O .BR ncpmount (8)
.\"O and the current version of
.\"O .B mount
.\"O (2.12) does not know anything about ncpfs.
.IR nfs " と同様に、" ncpfs
の実装では mount システムコールの際にバイナリの引き数
.RI ( "struct ncp_mount_data" )
を用いる。
この引き数は
.BR ncpmount (8)
によって渡すことができる。
現在のバージョンの
.B mount
(2.12) は ncpfs を扱うことができない。

.\"O .SS "Mount options for ntfs"
.SS ntfs のマウントオプション
.TP
.BI iocharset= name
.\"O Character set to use when returning file names.
.\"O Unlike VFAT, NTFS suppresses names that contain
.\"O nonconvertible characters.  Deprecated.
ファイル名を返すときに用いる文字セット。
VFAT とは異なり、NTFS は変換できない文字を含む名前を抑制する。
.\"NAKANO 返さない?
このオプションは推奨されない。
.TP
.BI nls= name
.\"O New name for the option earlier called
.\"O .IR iocharset .
以前は
.I iocharset
という名前であったオプションの新しい名前。
.TP
.B utf8
.\"O Use UTF-8 for converting file names.
ファイル名の変換に UTF-8 を用いる。
.TP
.BR uni_xlate= { 0 | 1 | 2 }
.\"O For 0 (or `no' or `false'), do not use escape sequences
.\"O for unknown Unicode characters.
.\"O For 1 (or `yes' or `true') or 2, use vfat-style 4-byte escape sequences
.\"O starting with ":".  Here 2 give a little-endian encoding
.\"O and 1 a byteswapped bigendian encoding.
0 (または `no' または `false') とすると、
不明な Unicode 文字に対してエスケープシーケンスを使わない。
1 (または `yes' または `true') または 2 とすると、
":" で始まる VFAT スタイルの 4 バイトのエスケープシーケンスを用いる。
2 の場合は、もとのファイル名をリトルエンディアンとみなしてエンコードする。
1 の場合は、もとのファイル名をバイト順が入れ換えられた
ビッグエンディアンとみなしてエンコードする。
.TP
.B posix=[0|1]
.\"O If enabled (posix=1), the filesystem distinguishes between
.\"O upper and lower case.  The 8.3 alias names are presented as
.\"O hard links instead of being suppressed.  This option is obsolete.
有効になっている (posix=1) と、ファイルシステムは大文字小文字を区別する。
この場合には 8.3 形式の別名がハードリンクとして実現される。
このオプションは古い。
.TP
.\"O \fBuid=\fP\,\fIvalue\fP, \fBgid=\fP\,\fIvalue\fP and \fBumask=\fP\,\fIvalue\fP
\fBuid=\fP\,\fIvalue\fP, \fBgid=\fP\,\fIvalue\fP, \fBumask=\fP\,\fIvalue\fP
.\"O Set the file permission on the filesystem.
.\"O The umask value is given in octal.
.\"O By default, the files are owned by root and not readable by somebody else.
ファイルシステムにあるファイルの許可属性を設定する。
umask の値は 8 進数で指定する。
デフォルトではファイルは root が所有し、
他のユーザーからは読み取り不可になっている。

.\"O .SS "Mount options for overlay"
.SS "オーバーレイ (overlay) のマウントオプション"
.\"O Since Linux 3.18 the overlay pseudo filesystem implements a union mount for
.\"O other filesystems.
Linux 3.18 以降で、オーバーレイ擬似ファイルシステムは、
他のファイルシステムの統合 (union) マウントを実装している。

.\"O An overlay filesystem combines two filesystems - an \fBupper\fR filesystem and
.\"O a \fBlower\fR filesystem.  When a name exists in both filesystems, the object
.\"O in the upper filesystem is visible while the object in the lower filesystem is
.\"O either hidden or, in the case of directories, merged with the upper object.
オーバーレイファイルシステムは 2 つのファイルシステム -
\fB上位 (upper)\fR ファイルシステムと
\fB下位 (lower)\fR ファイルシステムを組み合わせる。
名前が両方のファイルシステムに存在する場合、
上位ファイルシステムのオブジェクトが可視化され、
一方で、下位ファイルシステムのオブジェクトは隠されるか、
ディレクトリの場合は、上位オブジェクトにマージされる。

.\"O The lower filesystem can be any filesystem supported by Linux and does not need
.\"O to be writable.  The lower filesystem can even be another overlayfs.  The upper
.\"O filesystem will normally be writable and if it is it must support the creation
.\"O of trusted.* extended attributes, and must provide a valid d_type in readdir
.\"O responses, so NFS is not suitable.
下位ファイルシステムは Linux でサポートされる任意のファイルシステムであり、
書き込み可能である必要はない。
下位ファイルシステムは他のオーバーレイファイルシステムであってもよい。
上位ファイルシステムは通常は書き込み可能である。
その場合、trusted.* 拡張属性での作成をサポートしている必要があり、
かつ readdir の応答として有効な d_type を返す必要がある。
そのため、NFS は適切ではない。

.\"O A read-only overlay of two read-only filesystems may use any filesystem type.
.\"O The options \fBlowerdir\fR and \fBupperdir\fR are combined into a merged
.\"O directory by using:
2 つの読み込みのみのファイルシステムで構成される、
読み込みのみのオーバーレイでは、任意のファイルシステムタイプを使うことが
できる。
以下のようにして、オプション \fBlowerdir\fR と \fBupperdir\fR を組み合わせて、
merged ディレクトリにすることができる。

.RS
.br
.nf
.B "mount \-t overlay  overlay  \e"
.B "  \-olowerdir=/lower,upperdir=/upper,workdir=/work  /merged"
.fi
.br
.RE

.TP
.BI lowerdir= directory
.\"O Any filesystem, does not need to be on a writable filesystem.
任意のファイルシステムであり、書き込み可能なファイルシステムである
必要はない。
.TP
.BI upperdir= directory
.\"O The upperdir is normally on a writable filesystem.
upperdir は通常は書き込み可能なファイルシステムである。
.TP
.BI workdir= directory
.\"O The workdir needs to be an empty directory on the same filesystem as upperdir.
workdir は upperdir と同じファイルシステム上の空ディレクトリである必要がある。

.\"O .SS "Mount options for reiserfs"
.SS "reiserfs のマウントオプション"
.\"O Reiserfs is a journaling filesystem.
reiserfs はジャーナリングファイルシステムである。
.TP
.B conv
.\"O Instructs version 3.6 reiserfs software to mount a version 3.5 filesystem,
.\"O using the 3.6 format for newly created objects.  This filesystem will no
.\"O longer be compatible with reiserfs 3.5 tools.
バージョン 3.6 の reiserfs ソフトウェアに
バージョン 3.5 のファイルシステムをマウントさせる。
新しく作成されたオブジェクトには 3.6 の形式が使われる。
このようにしたファイルシステムは reiserfs 3.5 のツールとは互換性がなくなる。
.TP
.BR hash= { rupasov | tea | r5 | detect }
.\"O Choose which hash function reiserfs will use to find files within directories.
reiserfs がディレクトリ内でファイルを見付けるのに、
どのハッシュ関数を使うかを選択する。
.RS
.TP
.B rupasov
.\"O A hash invented by Yury Yu.\& Rupasov.  It is fast and preserves locality,
.\"O mapping lexicographically close file names to close hash values.
.\"O This option should not be used, as it causes a high probability of hash
.\"O collisions.
Yury Yu.\& Rupasov が発明したハッシュ。
このハッシュは高速であり、
辞書順で近いファイル名を近いハッシュ値に対応づけることで
近接関係 (locality) が保存される。
高い確率でハッシュの衝突が起こるので、このオプションは
使うべきではない。
.TP
.B tea
.\"O A Davis-Meyer function implemented by Jeremy Fitzhardinge.
.\"O It uses hash permuting bits in the name.  It gets high randomness
.\"O and, therefore, low probability of hash collisions at some CPU cost.
.\"O This may be used if EHASHCOLLISION errors are experienced with the r5 hash.
Jeremy Fitzhardinge が実装した Davis-Meyer 関数。
ハッシュ名にハッシュ置換ビットを使う。
ランダム性が高いので、使用される CPU コストに対してハッシュ衝突の確率が低い。
このオプションは、r5 ハッシュで EHASHCOLLISION エラーが起こる場合に使われる。
.TP
.B r5
.\"O A modified version of the rupasov hash.  It is used by default and is
.\"O the best choice unless the filesystem has huge directories and
.\"O unusual file-name patterns.
rupasov ハッシュの修正版。
デフォルトではこれが使用され、非常に多くのディレクトリや
変わったファイル名のパターンがファイルシステムにない限り、
もっとも良い選択肢である。
.TP
.B detect
.\"O Instructs
.\"O .I mount
.\"O to detect which hash function is in use by examining
.\"O the filesystem being mounted, and to write this information into
.\"O the reiserfs superblock.  This is only useful on the first mount of
.\"O an old format filesystem.
現在マウントされているファイルシステムを
.I mount
コマンドに調べさせ、どのハッシュ関数が使われているかを検出 (detect) させる。
さらに、この情報を reiserfs のスーパーブロックに書き込ませる。
古い形式のファイルシステムを初めてマウントするときにのみ
役立つ。
.RE
.TP
.B hashed_relocation
.\"O Tunes the block allocator.  This may provide performance improvements
.\"O in some situations.
ブロックアロケータを有効にする。
ある状況下では性能の向上が見られるかもしれない。
.TP
.B no_unhashed_relocation
.\"O Tunes the block allocator.  This may provide performance improvements
.\"O in some situations.
ブロックアロケータを有効にする。
ある状況下では性能の向上が見られるかもしれない。
.TP
.B noborder
.\"O Disable the border allocator algorithm invented by Yury Yu.\& Rupasov.
.\"O This may provide performance improvements in some situations.
Yury Yu.\& Rupasov が発明した境界アロケータアルゴリズムを無効にする。
ある状況下では性能の向上が見られるかもしれない。
.TP
.B nolog
.\"O Disable journaling.  This will provide slight performance improvements in
.\"O some situations at the cost of losing reiserfs's fast recovery from crashes.
.\"O Even with this option turned on, reiserfs still performs all journaling
.\"O operations, save for actual writes into its journaling area.  Implementation
.\"O of
.\"O .I nolog
.\"O is a work in progress.
ジャーナリングを無効にする。
reiserfs が持つクラッシュからの高速な回復は失われるが、
ある状況下では僅かな性能の向上が見られる。
このオプションが有効になっている場合でも、
reiserfs は、ジャーナリング領域への実際の書き込みを保存するといった
全てのジャーナリング操作を行っている。
.I nolog
の実装は進行中の作業である。
.TP
.B notail
.\"O By default, reiserfs stores small files and `file tails' directly into its
.\"O tree.  This confuses some utilities such as
.\"O .BR LILO (8).
.\"O This option is used to disable packing of files into the tree.
デフォルトでは、reiserfs は小さなファイルや「ファイルの末尾」を
ツリーの中に直接格納する。
これが
.BR LILO (8)
のようなユーティリティを混乱させてしまう。
このオプションはファイルをツリーの中に格納させないようにする。
.TP
.B replayonly
.\"O Replay the transactions which are in the journal, but do not actually
.\"O mount the filesystem.  Mainly used by
.\"O .IR reiserfsck .
ジャーナルにあるトランザクションをやり直させる。
実際にはファイルシステムをマウントしない。
主に
.I reiserfsck
が使う。
.TP
.BI resize= number
.\"O A remount option which permits online expansion of reiserfs partitions.
.\"O Instructs reiserfs to assume that the device has
.\"O .I number
.\"O blocks.
.\"O This option is designed for use with devices which are under logical
.\"O volume management (LVM).
reiserfs パーティションのオンラインでの領域拡張を許可する
再マウントオプション。
そのデバイスが
.I number
ブロック数であると reiserfs に仮定させる。
このオプションは、論理的なボリューム管理 (LVM) 下にある
デバイスに対して使うように設計されている。
.\"O There is a special
.\"O .I resizer
.\"O utility which can be obtained from
.\"O .IR ftp://ftp.namesys.com/pub/reiserfsprogs .
.I ftp://ftp.namesys.com/pub/reiserfsprogs
から特別な
.I resizer
ユーティリティが取得できる。

.TP
.B user_xattr
.\"O Enable Extended User Attributes.  See the
.\"O .BR attr (1)
.\"O manual page.
拡張ユーザ属性を有効にする。
.BR attr (1)
のマニュアルページを参照すること。
.TP
.B acl
.\"O Enable POSIX Access Control Lists.  See the
.\"O .BR acl (5)
.\"O manual page.
POSIX アクセス制御リストを有効にする。
.BR acl (5)
のマニュアルページを参照すること。
.TP
.BR barrier=none " / " barrier=flush
.\"O This disables / enables the use of write barriers in the journaling code.
.\"O barrier=none disables, barrier=flush enables (default).  This also requires an
.\"O IO stack which can support barriers, and if reiserfs gets an error on a barrier
.\"O write, it will disable barriers again with a warning.  Write barriers enforce
.\"O proper on-disk ordering of journal commits, making volatile disk write caches
.\"O safe to use, at some performance penalty.  If your disks are battery-backed in
.\"O one way or another, disabling barriers may safely improve performance.
このオプションは、ジャーナリングコードで書き込みバリアを
無効/有効にする。
barrier=none で無効にして、barrier=flush で有効にする (デフォルト)。
このオプションはバリアをサポートする IO スタックが必要であり、
reiserfs がバリア書き込みでエラーになると、警告を出してバリアを無効化する。
書き込みバリアは、ディスク上での正しいジャーナルコミットの順番を
強制し、一時的なディスク書き込みキャッシュを安全に使わせる
必要がある。
そのため、性能上のペナルティがある。
ディスクがバッテリーでバックアップされている場合、
バリアの無効化で安全に性能を改善できる。

.\"O .SS "Mount options for ubifs"
.SS "ubifs のマウントオプション"
.\"O UBIFS is a flash filesystem which works on top of UBI volumes.  Note that
.\"O \fBatime\fR is not supported and is always turned off.
UBIFS は UBI ボリューム上で動作するフラッシュファイルシステムである。
\fBatime\fR はサポートされておらず、常に無効化されている。
.TP
.\"O The device name may be specified as
デバイス名は以下のように指定できる。
.PP
.RS
.B ubiX_Y
.\"O UBI device number
.\"O .BR X ,
.\"O volume number
.\"O .B Y
UBI デバイス番号
.BR X ,
ボリューム番号
.B Y
.TP
.B ubiY
.\"O UBI device number
.\"O .BR 0 ,
.\"O volume number
.\"O .B Y
UBI デバイス番号
.BR 0 ,
ボリューム番号
.B Y
.TP
.B ubiX:NAME
.\"O UBI device number
.\"O .BR X ,
.\"O volume with name
.\"O .B NAME
UBI デバイス番号
.BR X ,
ボリューム名
.B NAME
.TP
.B ubi:NAME
.\"O UBI device number
.\"O .BR 0 ,
.\"O volume with name
.\"O .B NAME
UBI デバイス番号
.BR 0 ,
ボリューム名
.B NAME
.RE
.PP
.\"O Alternative
.\"O .B !
.\"O separator may be used instead of
.\"O .BR : .
.B :
の代わりに
.B !
を区切り文字に使うことができる。
.TP
.\"O The following mount options are available:
以下のマウントオプションが指定可能である:
.TP
.B bulk_read
.\"O Enable bulk-read.  VFS read-ahead is disabled because it slows down the filesystem.  Bulk-Read is an internal optimization.  Some flashes may read faster if
.\"O the data are read at one go, rather than at several read requests.  For
.\"O example, OneNAND can do "read-while-load" if it reads more than one NAND page.
まとめ読み込み (bulk-read) を有効化する。
ファイルシステムをスローダウンさせるので、VFS の先読み (read-ahead) は無効化される。
まとめての読み込みは、内部的な最適化である。
フラッシュメモリでは、複数回の読み込みリクエストよりも、
データを 1 度に読み込んだ方が速くなる可能性がある。
例えば、NAND の 1 ページ以上を読み込む場合、
「ロード中の読み込み (read-while-load)」ができる。
.TP
.B no_bulk_read
.\"O Do not bulk-read.  This is the default.
まとめ読み込みをしない。これがデフォルトである。
.TP
.B chk_data_crc
.\"O Check data CRC-32 checksums.  This is the default.
データの CRC-32 チェックサムを検証する。これがデフォルトである。
.TP
.\"O .BR no_chk_data_crc .
.B no_chk_data_crc
.\"O Do not check data CRC-32 checksums.  With this option, the filesystem does not
.\"O check CRC-32 checksum for data, but it does check it for the internal indexing
.\"O information.  This option only affects reading, not writing.  CRC-32 is always
.\"O calculated when writing the data.
データの CRC-32 チェックサムを検証しない。
このオプションを指定すると、ファイルシステムはデータの CRC-32 チェックサムを検証しないが、
内部のインデックス情報は検証する。
このオプションは、読み込みにのみ影響し、書き込みには影響しない。
データを書き込む際には、CRC-32 は常に計算される。
.TP
.BR compr= { none | lzo | zlib }
.\"O Select the default compressor which is used when new files are written.  It is
.\"O still possible to read compressed files if mounted with the
.\"O .B none
.\"O option.
新しいファイルが書き込まれる際に使われるデフォルトの圧縮方法を
選択する。
ファイルシステムを
.B none
オプションでマウントしたとしても、圧縮したファイルを読み込むことが
できる。

.\"O .SS "Mount options for udf"
.SS "udf のマウントオプション"
.\"O UDF is the "Universal Disk Format" filesystem defined by OSTA, the Optical
.\"O Storage Technology Association, and is often used for DVD-ROM, frequently
.\"O in the form of a hybrid UDF/ISO-9660 filesystem. It is, however,
.\"O perfectly usable by itself on disk drives, flash drives and other block devices.
.\"O See also
.\"O .IR iso9660 .
UDF は OSTA, Optical Storage Technology Association で定義されている
"Universal Disk Format" ファイルシステムであり、DVD-ROM で多く使用される。
多くの場合、ハイブリッド UDF/ISO-9660 ファイルシステムの形式である。
しかし、それ自身はディスクドライブ、フラッシュドライブ、
他のブロックデバイスとして、完璧に利用できる。
.I iso9660
も参照すること。
.TP
.B uid=
.\"O Make all files in the filesystem belong to the given user.
.\"O uid=forget can be specified independently of (or usually in
.\"O addition to) uid=<user> and results in UDF
.\"O not storing uids to the media. In fact the recorded uid
.\"O is the 32-bit overflow uid \-1 as defined by the UDF standard.
.\"O The value is given as either <user> which is a valid user name or the corresponding
.\"O decimal user id, or the special string "forget".
ファイルシステムの全てのファイルを、指定したユーザーに所属させる。
uid=forget は、uid=<user> と独立して (または、通常は追加として) 指定可能で、
結果として、UDF は uid をメディアに格納しない。
実際、記録された uid は 32 ビットのオーバーフロー uid \-1 で、
UDF 標準で定義されている。
<user> の値は、有効なユーザー名、対応する 10 進数のユーザー ID、
特別な文字列 "forget" のいずれかである。
.TP
.B gid=
.\"O Make all files in the filesystem belong to the given group.
.\"O gid=forget can be specified independently of (or usually in
.\"O addition to) gid=<group> and results in UDF
.\"O not storing gids to the media. In fact the recorded gid
.\"O is the 32-bit overflow gid \-1 as defined by the UDF standard.
.\"O The value is given as either <group> which is a valid group name or the corresponding
.\"O decimal group id, or the special string "forget".
ファイルシステムの全てのファイルを、指定したグループに所属させる。
gid=forget は、gid=<group> と独立して (または、通常は追加として) 指定可能で、
結果として、UDF は gid をメディアに格納しない。
実際、記録された gid は 32 ビットのオーバーフロー gid \-1 で、
UDF 標準で定義されている。
<group> の値は、有効なグループ名、対応する 10 進数のグループ ID、
特別な文字列 "forget" のいずれかである。
.TP
.B umask=
.\"O Mask out the given permissions from all inodes read from the filesystem.
ファイルシステムから読み出した全ての i ノードの権限を指定した権限でマスクする。
.\"O The value is given in octal.
値は 8 進数で指定する。
.TP
.B mode=
.\"O If mode= is set the permissions of all non-directory inodes read from the
.\"O filesystem will be set to the given mode. The value is given in octal.
mode= が設定された場合、ファイルシステムから読み出したディレクトリ以外の
全ての i ノードの権限を指定したモードに設定する。
値は 8 進数で指定する。
.TP
.B dmode=
.\"O If dmode= is set the permissions of all directory inodes read from the
.\"O filesystem will be set to the given dmode. The value is given in octal.
dmode= が設定された場合、ファイルシステムから読み出したディレクトリの
全ての i ノードの権限を指定したモードに設定する。
値は 8 進数で指定する。
.TP
.B bs=
.\"O Set the block size. Default value prior to kernel version 2.6.30 was
.\"O 2048. Since 2.6.30 and prior to 4.11 it was logical device block size with
.\"O fallback to 2048. Since 4.11 it is logical block size with fallback to
.\"O any valid block size between logical device block size and 4096.
ブロックサイズを設定する。
カーネルバージョン 2.6.30 より前のデフォルト値は 2048 である。
2.6.30 以降で 4.11 より前では、論理デバイスブロックサイズで 2048 になった。
4.11 以降では、論理デバイスブロックサイズから 4096 の間の
有効な論理ブロックサイズである。

.\"O For other details see the \fBmkudffs\fP(8) 2.0+ manpage, sections
.\"O \fBCOMPATIBILITY\fP and \fBBLOCK SIZE\fP.
他の詳細は \fBmkudffs\fP(8) 2.0+ の man ページのセクション
\fB互換性\fP と \fBブロックサイズ\fP を参照すること。
.TP
.B unhide
.\"O Show otherwise hidden files.
隠しファイルも見せる。
.TP
.B undelete
.\"O Show deleted files in lists.
削除されたファイルもリストに見せる。
.TP
.B adinicb
.\"O Embed data in the inode. (default)
i ノードにデータを埋め込む (デフォルト)。
.TP
.B noadinicb
.\"O Don't embed data in the inode.
i ノードにデータを埋め込まない。
.TP
.B shortad
.\"O Use short UDF address descriptors.
ショート UDF アドレスディスクリプターを使う。
.TP
.B longad
.\"O Use long UDF address descriptors. (default)
ロング UDF アドレスディスクリプターを使う (デフォルト)。
.TP
.B nostrict
.\"O Unset strict conformance.
厳密に適合させない。
.TP
.B iocharset=
.\"O Set the NLS character set. This requires kernel compiled with CONFIG_UDF_NLS option.
NLS 文字セットを設定する。
これには、CONFIG_UDF_NLS オプションでコンパイルしたカーネルが必要である。
.TP
.B utf8
.\"O Set the UTF-8 character set.
UTF-8 文字集合を設定する。
.\"O .SS Mount options for debugging and disaster recovery
.SS デバッグと障害復旧のマウントオプション
.TP
.B novrs
.\"O Ignore the Volume Recognition Sequence and attempt to mount anyway.
ボリューム認識シーケンス (Volume Recognition Sequence) を無視して、
マウントしようとする。
.TP
.B session=
.\"O Select the session number for multi-session recorded optical media. (default= last session)
マルチセッションで記録された光学メディアのセッション番号を選択する
(デフォルトは最後のセッションである)。
.TP
.B anchor=
.\"O Override standard anchor location. (default= 256)
標準のアンカーの位置を上書きする。(デフォルトは 256)
.TP
.B lastblock=
.\"O Set the last block of the filesystem.
ファイルシステムの最終ブロックを設定する。
.\"O .SS Unused historical mount options that may be encountered and should be removed
.SS 指定された場合にも削除される、使用されていない歴史的なマウントオプション
.TP
.B uid=ignore
.\"O Ignored, use uid=<user> instead.
無視される。代わりに uid=<user> を使うこと。
.TP
.B gid=ignore
.\"O Ignored, use gid=<group> instead.
無視される。代わりに gid=<group> を使うこと。
.TP
.B volume=
.\"O Unimplemented and ignored.
未実装であり、無視される。
.TP
.B partition=
.\"O Unimplemented and ignored.
未実装であり、無視される。
.TP
.B fileset=
.\"O Unimplemented and ignored.
未実装であり、無視される。
.TP
.B rootdir=
.\"O Unimplemented and ignored.
未実装であり、無視される。

.\"O .SS "Mount options for ufs"
.SS "ufs のマウントオプション"
.TP
.BI ufstype= value
.\"O UFS is a filesystem widely used in different operating systems.
.\"O The problem are differences among implementations.  Features of some
.\"O implementations are undocumented, so its hard to recognize the
.\"O type of ufs automatically.
.\"O That's why the user must specify the type of ufs by mount option.
.\"O Possible values are:
UFS は他の OS で広く用いられているファイルシステムである。
ただし実装が OS によって異なっているのが問題である。
ある種の実装における機能には文書化されていないものがあり、
ufs の形式を自動的に認識するのは難しい。
したがってユーザーは ufs の形式をマウントオプションで指定しなければならない。
指定できる値は以下の通り:
.RS
.TP
.B old
.\"O Old format of ufs, this is the default, read only.
ufs の古い形式。これがデフォルトで、リードオンリー
.\"O (Don't forget to give the \-r option.)
(\-r オプションを忘れずに指定すること)。
.TP
.B 44bsd
.\"O For filesystems created by a BSD-like system (NetBSD, FreeBSD, OpenBSD).
BSD ライクなシステム (NetBSD, FreeBSD, OpenBSD)
で作られたファイルシステムに用いる。
.TP
.B ufs2
.\"O Used in FreeBSD 5.x supported as read-write.
FreeBSD 5.x で使われており、読み書きがサポートされる。
.TP
.B 5xbsd
.\"O Synonym for ufs2.
ufs2 の別名。
.TP
.B sun
.\"O For filesystems created by SunOS or Solaris on Sparc.
SunOS や Solaris on Sparc
で作られたファイルシステムに用いる。
.TP
.B sunx86
.\"O For filesystems created by Solaris on x86.
Solaris on x86
で作られたファイルシステムに用いる。
.TP
.B hp
.\"O For filesystems created by HP-UX, read-only.
HP-UX で作られたファイルシステムに用いる。リードオンリー。
.TP
.B nextstep
.\"O For filesystems created by NeXTStep (on NeXT station) (currently read only).
(NeXT ステーションの) NeXTStep
で作られたファイルシステムに用いる (現在はリードオンリー)。
.TP
.B nextstep-cd
.\"O For NextStep CDROMs (block_size == 2048), read-only.
NeXTStep CDROM (block_size == 2048) に用いる。リードオンリー。
.TP
.B openstep
.\"O For filesystems created by OpenStep (currently read only).
OpenStep で作られたファイルシステムに用いる (現在はリードオンリー)。
.\"O The same filesystem type is also used by Mac OS X.
同じファイルシステムが Mac OS X でも使われている。
.RE

.TP
.BI onerror= value
.\"O Set behavior on error:
エラー時の振る舞いを設定する:
.RS
.TP
.B panic
.\"O If an error is encountered, cause a kernel panic.
エラーが起こったらカーネルパニックを起こす。
.TP
.RB [ lock | umount | repair ]
.\"O These mount options don't do anything at present;
.\"O when an error is encountered only a console message is printed.
現在のところはこれらのオプションはなにもしない。
エラーが起こるとコンソールメッセージが表示されるだけである。
.RE

.\"O .SS "Mount options for umsdos"
.SS "umsdos のマウントオプション"
.\"O See mount options for msdos.
.\"O The
.\"O .B dotsOK
.\"O option is explicitly killed by
.\"O .IR umsdos .
msdos のマウントオプションを見よ。
.B dotsOK
オプションは
.I umsdos
では当然無効である。

.\"O .SS "Mount options for vfat"
.SS "vfat のマウントオプション"
.\"O First of all, the mount options for
.\"O .I fat
.\"O are recognized.
.\"O The
.\"O .B dotsOK
.\"O option is explicitly killed by
.\"O .IR vfat .
.\"O Furthermore, there are
まず
.I fat
のマウントオプションが認識される。
.B dotsOK
オプションは
.I vfat
では当然無効である。
さらに以下のオプションが存在する。
.TP
.B uni_xlate
.\"O Translate unhandled Unicode characters to special escaped sequences.
.\"O This lets you backup and restore filenames that are created with any
.\"O Unicode characters.  Without this option, a '?' is used when no
.\"O translation is possible.  The escape character is ':' because it is
.\"O otherwise invalid on the vfat filesystem.  The escape sequence
.\"O that gets used, where u is the Unicode character,
.\"O is: ':', (u & 0x3f), ((u>>6) & 0x3f), (u>>12).
扱うことのできない Unicode 文字を特殊なエスケープシーケンスに変換する。
これは Unicode 文字を含むファイルをバックアップ、
レストアするのに用いることができる。
このオプションを指定しないと、変換できない場合には `?' が用いられる。
エスケープ文字には `:' が用いられる
(これは通常 vfat ファイルシステムでは用いることのできない文字であるため)。
用いられるエスケープシーケンスは u を Unicode 文字とすると以下の通り。
\&':', (u & 0x3f), ((u>>6) & 0x3f), (u>>12)。
.TP
.B posix
.\"O Allow two files with names that only differ in case.
.\"O This option is obsolete.
大文字か小文字かだけが異なる 2 つのファイル名を識別できるようにする。
このオプションは古い。
.TP
.B nonumtail
.\"O First try to make a short name without sequence number,
.\"O before trying
.\"O .IR name\s+3~\s0num.ext .
.I name\s+3~\s0num.ext
を用いる前に、まずシーケンス番号のない短縮名に変換しようとする。
.TP
.B utf8
.\"O UTF8 is the filesystem safe 8-bit encoding of Unicode that is used by the
.\"O console.  It can be enabled for the filesystem with this option or disabled
.\"O with utf8=0, utf8=no or utf8=false.  If `uni_xlate' gets set, UTF8 gets
.\"O disabled.
UTF8 は、コンソールで用いられる Unicode の 8 ビットエンコードに対して
安全なファイルシステムである。
このオプションを指定すると UTF8 が有効になる。
また、utf8=0, utf8=no, utf8=false のいずれかで無効になる。
\&'uni_xlate' が設定されていると UTF8 は無効になる。
.TP
.BI shortname= mode
.\"O Defines the behavior for creation and display of filenames which fit into
.\"O 8.3 characters.  If a long name for a file exists, it will always be the
.\"O preferred one for display.  There are four \fImode\fRs:
8.3 形式の文字列に合うようなファイル名を
生成したり表示したりする動作を定義する。
ファイルにロングネームがある場合は、いつでも指定された動作で
表示する。
以下の 4 つの \fImode\fR がある:
.RS
.TP
.B lower
.\"O Force the short name to lower case upon display; store a long name when
.\"O the short name is not all upper case.
ショートネームを表示する際に小文字にする。
ショートネームに小文字が含まれる場合は、ロングネームで
生成する。
.TP
.B win95
.\"O Force the short name to upper case upon display; store a long name when
.\"O the short name is not all upper case.
ショートネームを表示する際に大文字にする。
ショートネームに小文字が含まれる場合は、ロングネームで
生成する。
.TP
.B winnt
.\"O Display the short name as is; store a long name when the short name is
.\"O not all lower case or all upper case.
ショート名をそのまま表示する。
ショートネームが全て小文字または全て大文字でない場合は、
ロングネームで生成する。
.TP
.B mixed
.\"O Display the short name as is; store a long name when the short name is not
.\"O all upper case.  This mode is the default since Linux 2.6.32.
ショート名をそのまま表示する。
ショートネームに小文字が含まれる場合は、ロングネームで
生成する。
このモードは、Linux 2.6.32 以降のデフォルトである。
.RE

.\"O .SS "Mount options for usbfs"
.SS "usbfs のマウントオプション"
.TP
.\"O \fBdevuid=\fP\,\fIuid\fP and \fBdevgid=\fP\,\fIgid\fP and \fBdevmode=\fP\,\fImode\fP
.\"O Set the owner and group and mode of the device files in the usbfs filesystem
.\"O (default: uid=gid=0, mode=0644).  The mode is given in octal.
\fBdevuid=\fP\,\fIuid\fP, \fBdevgid=\fP\,\fIgid\fP, \fBdevmode=\fP\,\fImode\fP
usbfs ファイルシステムにあるデバイスファイルの
所有者・グループ・モードを設定する
(デフォルトは uid=gid=0, mode=0644)。
このモードは 8 進数で指定する。
.TP
.\"O \fBbusuid=\fP\,\fIuid\fP and \fBbusgid=\fP\,\fIgid\fP and \fBbusmode=\fP\,\fImode\fP
.\"O Set the owner and group and mode of the bus directories in the usbfs
.\"O filesystem (default: uid=gid=0, mode=0555).  The mode is given in octal.
\fBbusuid=\fP\,\fIuid\fP, \fBbusgid=\fP\,\fIgid\fP, \fBbusmode=\fP\,\fImode\fP
usbfs ファイルシステムにあるバスディレクトリの
所有者・グループ・モードを設定する
(デフォルトは uid=gid=0, mode=0555)。
このモードは 8 進数で指定する。
.TP
.\"O \fBlistuid=\fP\,\fIuid\fP and \fBlistgid=\fP\,\fIgid\fP and \fBlistmode=\fP\,\fImode\fP
.\"O Set the owner and group and mode of the file
.\"O .I devices
.\"O (default: uid=gid=0, mode=0444).  The mode is given in octal.
\fBlistuid=\fP\,\fIuid\fP, \fBlistgid=\fP\,\fIgid\fP, \fBlistmode=\fP\,\fImode\fP
ファイル
.I devices
の所有者・グループ・モードを設定する
(デフォルトは uid=gid=0, mode=0444)。
このモードは 8 進数で指定する。

.\"O .SH DM-VERITY SUPPORT (experimental)
.SH DM-VERITY のサポート (実験的)
.\"O The device-mapper verity target provides read-only transparent integrity
.\"O checking of block devices using kernel crypto API.  The
.\"O .B mount
.\"O command can open
.\"O the dm-verity device and do the integrity verification before on the device
.\"O filesystem is mounted.  Requires libcryptsetup with in libmount (optionally via dlopen).
device-mapper verity (デバイスマッパーの検証) の対象は、
カーネルの暗号化 API を使って、
ブロックデバイスの読み込みだけの透過的な整合性チェックができる。
.B mount
コマンドは dm-verity デバイスをオープンし、
デバイス上のファイルシステムをマウントする前に、整合性の検証を行う。
(オプションで dlopen 経由で) libmount の libcryptsetup が必要である。
.\"O If libcryptsetup supports extracting the root hash of an already mounted device,
.\"O existing devices will be automatically reused in case of a match.
libcryptsetup が既にマウントしているデバイスのルートハッシュの抽出を
サポートしている場合、マッチすれば既存のデバイスは自動的に再利用される。
.\"O Mount options for dm-verity:
dm-verity のマウントオプションは、以下の通り:
.TP
\fBverity.hashdevice=\fP\,\fIpath\fP
.\"O Path to the hash tree device associated with the source volume to pass to dm-verity.
dm-verity に渡される、ソースボリュームに関連付けられたハッシュツリー
デバイスのパス。
.TP
\fBverity.roothash=\fP\,\fIhex\fP
.\"O Hex-encoded hash of the root of
.\"O .I verity.hashdevice
.\"O Mutually exclusive with
.\"O .I verity.roothashfile.
.I verity.hashdevice
のルートの 16 進数エンコードのハッシュ。
.I verity.roothashfile
とどちらかしか、指定できない。
.TP
\fBverity.roothashfile=\fP\,\fIpath\fP
.\"O Path to file containing the hex-encoded hash of the root of
.\"O .I verity.hashdevice.
.\"O Mutually exclusive with
.\"O .I verity.roothash.
.I verity.hashdevice
のルートの 16 進数エンコードのハッシュを含むファイルのパス。
.I verity.roothash
とどちらかしか、指定できない。
.TP
\fBverity.hashoffset=\fP\,\fIoffset\fP
.\"O If the hash tree device is embedded in the source volume,
.\"O .I offset
.\"O (default: 0) is used by dm-verity to get to the tree.
ハッシュツリーデバイスがソースボリュームに含まれている場合、dm-verity はツリーを取得するのに、
.I offset
(デフォルト: 0) を使う。
.TP
\fBverity.fecdevice=\fP\,\fIpath\fP
.\"O Path to the Forward Error Correction (FEC) device associated with the source volume to pass to dm-verity.
.\"O Optional. Requires kernel built with CONFIG_DM_VERITY_FEC.
dm-verity に渡される、ソースボリュームに関連付けられた
前方誤り訂正 (Forward Error Correction, FEC) デバイスのパス。
これは、オプションである。
カーネルが CONFIG_DM_VERITY_FEC を付けてビルドされている必要がある。
.TP
\fBverity.fecoffset=\fP\,\fIoffset\fP
.\"O If the FEC device is embedded in the source volume,
.\"O .I offset
.\"O (default: 0) is used by dm-verity to get to the FEC area. Optional.
FEC デバイスがソースボリュームに埋め込まれている場合、dm-verity は FEC 領域を取得するために、
.I offset
(デフォルト: 0) を使う。
これはオプションである。
.TP
\fBverity.fecroots=\fP\,\fIvalue\fP
.\"O Parity bytes for FEC (default: 2). Optional.
FEC のパリティバイト (デフォルト: 2)。
これはオプションである。
.TP
\fBverity.roothashsig=\fP\,\fIpath\fP
.\"O Path to pkcs7 signature of root hash hex string. Requires crypt_activate_by_signed_key() from cryptsetup and
.\"O kernel built with CONFIG_DM_VERITY_VERIFY_ROOTHASH_SIG. For device reuse, signatures have to be either used by all
.\"O mounts of a device or by none. Optional.
ルートハッシュ 16 進数文字列の pkcs7 署名のパス。
cryptsetup の crypt_activate_by_signed_key() が必要であり、
カーネルが CONFIG_DM_VERITY_VERIFY_ROOTHASH_SIG を付けてビルドされている必要がある。
デバイスを再利用するためには、署名がデバイスのすべてのマウントで
使われているか、全く使われていない必要がある。
これはオプションである。
.PP
.\"O Supported since util-linux v2.35.
util-linux v2.35 以降でサポートされる。
.PP
.\"O For example commands:
例えば、コマンド:
.sp
.RS
.nf
.B mksquashfs /etc /tmp/etc.squashfs
.B dd if=/dev/zero of=/tmp/etc.hash bs=1M count=10
.B veritysetup format /tmp/etc.squashfs /tmp/etc.hash
.B openssl smime \-sign \-in <hash> \-nocerts \-inkey private.key \e
.B \-signer private.crt \-noattr \-binary \-outform der \-out /tmp/etc.p7
.B mount \-o verity.hashdevice=/tmp/etc.hash,verity.roothash=<hash>,\e
.B verity.roothashsig=/tmp/etc.p7 /tmp/etc.squashfs /mnt
.fi
.RE
.sp
.\"O create squashfs image from /etc directory, verity hash device
.\"O and mount verified filesystem image to /mnt.
は /etc ディレクトリから squashfs イメージを作成し、
ハッシュデバイスを検証 (verity) し、検証されたファイルシステムイメージを
/mnt にマウントする。
.\"O The kernel will verify that the root hash is signed by a key from the kernel keyring if roothashsig is used.
roothashsig が使われている場合、ルートハッシュがカーネルキーリングにあるキーで
署名されているかを、カーネルが検証する。

.\"O .SH LOOP-DEVICE SUPPORT
.SH loop デバイスのサポート
.\"O One further possible type is a mount via the loop device.  For example,
.\"O the command
残ったタイプとしてもう 1 つ、loop デバイスを用いたマウントがある。
例えば以下のコマンド
.RS
.sp
.B "mount /tmp/disk.img /mnt \-t vfat \-o loop=/dev/loop3"
.sp
.RE
.\"O will set up the loop device
.\"O .I /dev/loop3
.\"O to correspond to the file
.\"O .IR /tmp/disk.img ,
.\"O and then mount this device on
.\"O .IR /mnt .
は loop デバイス
.I /dev/loop3
をファイル
.I /tmp/disk.img
に関連付け、そしてこのデバイスを
.I /mnt
にマウントする。

.\"O If no explicit loop device is mentioned
.\"O (but just an option `\fB\-o loop\fP' is given), then
.\"O .B mount
.\"O will try to find some unused loop device and use that, for example
loop デバイスが明示的に指定されない場合
(単にオプション `\fB\-o loop\fP' が指定された場合)、
.B mount
は使用されていない loop デバイスを見つけて利用する。
例えば、
.RS
.sp
.B "mount /tmp/disk.img /mnt \-o loop"
.sp
.RE
.\"O The
.\"O .B mount
.\"O command
.\"O .B automatically
.\"O creates a loop device from a regular file if a filesystem type is
.\"O not specified or the filesystem is known for libblkid, for example:
.B mount
コマンドは、ファイルシステムタイプが指定されていない場合、
またはファイルシステムが libblkid で判明している場合、
通常ファイルから
.B 自動的に
loop デバイスを作成する。
例えば、
.RS
.sp
.B "mount /tmp/disk.img /mnt"
.sp
.B "mount \-t ext4 /tmp/disk.img /mnt"
.sp
.RE
.\"O This type of mount knows about three options, namely
.\"O .BR loop ", " offset " and " sizelimit ,
.\"O that are really options to
.\"O .BR \%losetup (8).
.\"O (These options can be used in addition to those specific
.\"O to the filesystem type.)
このタイプのマウントの際には 3 つのオプションが指定できる。
.BR loop ", " offset ", " sizelimit
である。
これらは実際には
.BR \%losetup (8)
のオプションである。
(これらのオプションはファイルシステムタイプに固有のオプションの他に
使用することができる。)

.\"O Since Linux 2.6.25 auto-destruction of loop devices is supported,
.\"O meaning that any loop device allocated by
.\"O .B mount
.\"O will be freed by
.\"O .B umount
.\"O independently of
.\"O .IR /etc/mtab .
Linux 2.6.25 以降で、loop デバイスの自動消去がサポートされた。
つまり、
.B mount
によって確保された loop デバイスは、
.I /etc/mtab
とは独立して
.B umount
で解放される。

.\"O You can also free a loop device by hand, using
.\"O .BR "losetup \-d " or " umount \-d" .
.BR "losetup \-d " または " umount \-d"
を使って、手動で loop デバイスを解放することもできる。

.\"O Since util-linux v2.29,
.\"O .B mount
.\"O re-uses the loop device rather than
.\"O initializing a new device if the same backing file is already used for some loop
.\"O device with the same offset and sizelimit. This is necessary to avoid
.\"O a filesystem corruption.
util-linux v2.29 以降の
.B mount
コマンドは、
同じバッキングファイルが同じ loop デバイスで同じオフセットとサイズ制限で使われている場合、
新しいデバイスを初期化するのではなく、loop デバイスを再利用するようになった。
これはファイルシステムの破損を防ぐために必要である。

.\"O .SH EXIT STATUS
.SH 返り値
.\"O .B mount
.\"O has the following exit status values (the bits can be ORed):
.B mount
は以下の値を返す (ビットは OR できる):
.TP
.B 0
.\"O success
成功した。
.TP
.B 1
.\"O incorrect invocation or permissions
呼び出しやパーミッションが正しくない。
.TP
.B 2
.\"O system error (out of memory, cannot fork, no more loop devices)
システムエラー (メモリ不足、fork できなかった、loop デバイスが足りない)。
.TP
.B 4
.\"O internal
.\"O .B mount
.\"O bug
.B mount
の内部のバグ。
.TP
.B 8
.\"O user interrupt
ユーザーによる中断。
.TP
.B 16
.\"O problems writing or locking /etc/mtab
/etc/mtab の書き込み時またはロック時の問題がある。
.TP
.B 32
.\"O mount failure
マウントに失敗した。
.TP
.B 64
.\"O some mount succeeded
マウントが一部が成功した。

.\"O The command \fBmount \-a\fR returns 0 (all succeeded), 32 (all failed), or 64 (some
.\"O failed, some succeeded).
コマンド \fBmount \-a\fR は、0 (全て成功), 32 (全て失敗),
64 (一部成功、一部失敗) を返す。

.\"O .SH EXTERNAL HELPERS
.SH 外部ヘルパー
.\"O The syntax of external mount helpers is:
外部 mount ヘルパーの書式は以下の通り:
.sp
.in +4
.BI /sbin/mount. suffix
.I spec dir
.RB [ \-sfnv ]
.RB [ \-N
.IR namespace ]
.RB [ \-o
.IR options ]
.RB [ \-t
.IR type \fB. subtype ]
.in
.sp
.\"O where the \fIsuffix\fR is the filesystem type and the \fB\-sfnvoN\fR options have
.\"O the same meaning as the normal mount options.  The \fB\-t\fR option is used for
.\"O filesystems with subtypes support (for example
.\"O .BR "/sbin/mount.fuse \-t fuse.sshfs" ).
ここで、\fIsuffix\fR はファイルシステムタイプであり、
\fB\-sfnvoN\fR オプションは通常のマウントオプションと同じ意味を持つ。
\fB\-t\fR オプションはサブタイプを持つファイルシステムで使われる
(例えば
.BR "/sbin/mount.fuse \-t fuse.sshfs" )。

.\"O The command \fBmount\fR does not pass the mount options
コマンド \fBmount\fR はマウントオプション
.BR unbindable ,
.BR runbindable ,
.BR private ,
.BR rprivate ,
.BR slave ,
.BR rslave ,
.BR shared ,
.BR rshared ,
.BR auto ,
.BR noauto ,
.BR comment ,
.BR x-* ,
.BR loop ,
.\"O .B offset
.\"O and
.B offset ,
.B sizelimit
.\"O to the mount.<suffix> helpers.  All other options are used in a
.\"O comma-separated list as an argument to the \fB\-o\fR option.
を mount.<suffix> ヘルパーに渡さない。
他の全てのオプションは、\fB\-o\fR オプションの引き数で
カンマ区切りのリストで使用される。

.\"O .SH ENVIRONMENT
.SH 環境変数
.IP LIBMOUNT_FSTAB=<path>
.\"O overrides the default location of the
.\"O .I fstab
.\"O file (ignored for suid)
.I fstab
のデフォルトの場所を上書きする (suid は無視される)。
.IP LIBMOUNT_MTAB=<path>
.\"O overrides the default location of the
.\"O .I mtab
.\"O file (ignored for suid)
.I mtab
のデフォルトの場所を上書きする (suid は無視される)。
.IP LIBMOUNT_DEBUG=all
.\"O enables libmount debug output
libmount のデバッグ出力を有効化する。
.IP LIBBLKID_DEBUG=all
.\"O enables libblkid debug output
libblkid のデバッグ出力を有効化する。
.IP LOOPDEV_DEBUG=all
.\"O enables loop device setup debug output
loop デバイスのセットアップデバッグ出力を有効化する。
.\"O .SH FILES
.SH ファイル
.\"O See also "\fBThe files /etc/fstab, /etc/mtab and /proc/mounts\fR" section above.
上記の "\fB/etc/fstab, /etc/mtab, /proc/mounts\fR" セクションも参照すること。
.TP 18n
.I /etc/fstab
.\"O filesystem table
ファイルシステムの一覧表
.TP
.I /run/mount
.\"O libmount private runtime directory
libmount のプライベートランタイムディレクトリ
.TP
.I /etc/mtab
.\"O table of mounted filesystems or symlink to
.\"O .I /proc/mounts
マウントされたファイルシステムの一覧表、または
.I /proc/mounts
へのシンボリックリンク。
.TP
.I /etc/mtab\s+3~\s0
.\"O lock file (unused on systems with
.\"O .I mtab
.\"O symlink)
ロックファイル
.RI ( mtab
がシンボリックリンクのシステムでは使われない)。
.TP
.I /etc/mtab.tmp
.\"O temporary file (unused on systems with
.\"O .I mtab
.\"O symlink)
テンポラリファイル
.RI ( mtab
がシンボリックリンクのシステムでは使われない)。
.TP
.I /etc/filesystems
.\"O a list of filesystem types to try
試行するファイルシステムタイプの一覧
.\"O .SH HISTORY
.SH 履歴
.\"O A
.\"O .B mount
.\"O command existed in Version 5 AT&T UNIX.
.B mount
コマンドは Version 5 の AT&T UNIX には存在していた。
.\"O .SH BUGS
.SH バグ
.\"O It is possible for a corrupted filesystem to cause a crash.
ファイルシステムに整合性がないと、クラッシュを引き起こす場合がある。
.PP
.\"O Some Linux filesystems don't support
.\"O .BR "\-o sync " and " \-o dirsync"
.\"O (the ext2, ext3, ext4, fat and vfat filesystems
.\"O .I do
.\"O support synchronous updates (a la BSD) when mounted with the
.\"O .B sync
.\"O option).
Linux のファイルシステムのなかには
.BR "\-o sync" " と " "\-o dirsync"
をサポートしていないものがある。
(ext2, ext3, ext4, fat, vfat ファイルシステムは
BSD 流の同期更新をサポートして\fIいる\fP。
.B sync
オプションとともにマウントすれば良い。)
.PP
.\"O The
.\"O .B "\-o remount"
.\"O may not be able to change mount parameters (all
.\"O .IR ext2fs -specific
.\"O parameters, except
.\"O .BR sb ,
.\"O are changeable with a remount, for example, but you can't change
.\"O .B gid
.\"O or
.\"O .B umask
.\"O for the
.\"O .IR fatfs ).
.B "\-o remount"
でマウントパラメータが変更されないことがある (例えば
.I ext2fs
特有のパラメータは、
.B sb
を除いてすべて remount で変更可能であるが、
.I fatfs
では
.B gid
や
.B umask
を変更できない)。
.PP
.\"O It is possible that the files
.\"O .I /etc/mtab
.\"O and
.\"O .I /proc/mounts
.\"O don't match on systems with a regular
.\"O .I mtab
.\"O file.  The first file is based only on
.\"O the mount command options, but the content of the second file also depends on
.\"O the kernel and others settings (e.g.\& on a remote NFS server -- in certain cases
.\"O the mount command may report unreliable information about an NFS mount point
.\"O and the
.\"O .I /proc/mount
.\"O file usually contains more reliable information.)  This is
.\"O another reason to replace the
.\"O .I mtab
.\"O file with a symlink to the
.\"O .I /proc/mounts
.\"O file.
通常の
.I mtab
ファイルを持つシステムでは、ファイル
.I /etc/mtab
と
.I /proc/mounts
がマッチしない可能性もある。
1 つ目のファイルは mount コマンドオプションにのみ基づいており、
2 つ目のファイルはカーネルと他の設定に依存しているためである
(例えば、リモート NFS サーバでは、NFS マウントポイントについて、
mount コマンドは信頼できない情報を返す可能性があるが、
.I /proc/mounts
ファイルはより信頼性のある情報を保持している)。
これが、
.I mtab
ファイルを
.I /proc/mounts
ファイルへのシンボリックリンクに置き換える、もう 1 つの理由である。
.PP
.\"O Checking files on NFS filesystems referenced by file descriptors (i.e.\& the
.\"O .B fcntl
.\"O and
.\"O .B ioctl
.\"O families of functions) may lead to inconsistent results due to the lack of
.\"O a consistency check in the kernel even if the
.\"O .B noac
.\"O mount option is used.
ファイルディスクリプター (つまり
.B fcntl
と
.B ioctl
関連の関数) で参照される NFS ファイルシステム上のファイルをチェックすると、
.B noac
オプションを使っていても、カーネルの整合性チェックが欠如しているために、
不整合を起こす場合がある。
.PP
.\"O The
.\"O .B loop
.\"O option with the
.\"O .B offset
.\"O or
.\"O .B sizelimit
.\"O options used may fail when using older kernels if the
.\"O .B mount
.\"O command can't confirm that the size of the block device has been configured
.\"O as requested.  This situation can be worked around by using
.\"O the
.\"O .B losetup
.\"O command manually before calling
.\"O .B mount
.\"O with the configured loop device.
古いカーネルを使っている場合、
.B offset
または
.B sizelimit
オプションを付けた
.B loop
オプションが使われると失敗する可能性がある。
これは、ブロックデバイスのサイズが要求された通りに設定されていることを、
.B mount
コマンドが確認できないためである。
この場合のワークアラウンドは、設定された loop デバイスで
.B mount
を呼び出す前に、
.B losetup
を呼び出すことである。
.\"O .SH AUTHORS
.SH 著者
.nf
Karel Zak <kzak@redhat.com>
.fi
.\"O .SH SEE ALSO
.SH 関連項目
.na
.BR lsblk (1),
.BR mount (2),
.BR umount (2),
.BR filesystems (5),
.BR fstab (5),
.BR nfs (5),
.BR xfs (5),
.BR mount_namespaces (7)
.BR xattr (7)
.BR e2label (8),
.BR findmnt (8),
.BR losetup (8),
.BR mke2fs (8),
.BR mountd (8),
.BR nfsd (8),
.BR swapon (8),
.BR tune2fs (8),
.BR umount (8),
.BR xfs_admin (8)
.ad
.\"O .SH AVAILABILITY
.SH 入手方法
.\"O The mount command is part of the util-linux package and is available from
.\"O https://www.kernel.org/pub/linux/utils/util-linux/.
mount コマンドは util-linux パッケージの一部であり、
https://www.kernel.org/pub/linux/utils/util-linux/
から入手できる。
