.\" Karel Zak <kzak@redhat.com>
.\"
.\" Japanese Version Copyright (c) 2020-2021 Yuichi SATO
.\"         all rights reserved.
.\" Translated Sat May  2 02:13:49 JST 2020
.\"         by Yuichi SATO <ysato444@ybb.ne.jp>
.\" Updated & Modified Thu Feb  4 22:34:32 JST 2021 by Yuichi SATO
.\"
.TH SWITCH_ROOT 8 "June 2009" "util-linux" "System Administration"
.\"O .SH NAME
.SH 名前
.\"O switch_root \- switch to another filesystem as the root of the mount tree
switch_root \- マウントツリーのルートとして別のファイルシステムに切り替える。
.\"O .SH SYNOPSIS
.SH 書式
.B switch_root
.RB [ \-hV ]
.LP
.B switch_root
.I newroot
.I init
.RI [ arg ...]
.\"O .SH DESCRIPTION
.SH 説明
.\"O .B switch_root
.\"O moves already mounted /proc, /dev, /sys and /run to
.\"O .I newroot
.\"O and makes
.\"O .I newroot
.\"O the new root filesystem and starts
.\"O .I init
.\"O process.
.B switch_root
は既にマウントされている /proc, /dev, /sys, /run を
.I newroot
に移動して、
.I newroot
を新しいルートファイルシステムとし、
.I init
プロセスを開始する。

.\"O .B WARNING: switch_root removes recursively all files and directories on the current root filesystem.
.B 注意: switch_root は現在のルートファイルシステム上の全てのファイルとディレクトリを再帰的に削除する。

.\"O .SH OPTIONS
.SH オプション
.IP "\fB\-h, \-\-help\fP"
.\"O Display help text and exit.
ヘルプを表示して、終了する。
.IP "\fB\-V, \-\-version\fP"
.\"O Display version information and exit.
バージョン情報を表示して、終了する。

.\"O .SH EXIT STATUS
.SH 返り値
.\"O .B switch_root
.\"O returns 0 on success and 1 on failure.
.B switch_root
は、成功した場合 0 を返し、失敗した場合 1 を返す。

.\"O .SH NOTES
.SH 注意
.\"O switch_root will fail to function if
.\"O .B newroot
.\"O is not the root of a mount. If you want to switch root into a directory that
.\"O does not meet this requirement then you can first use a bind-mounting trick to
.\"O turn any directory into a mount point:
switch_root は、
.B newroot
がマウントのルートでない場合、動作に失敗する。
この必要条件を満たさないディレクトリをルートに切り替えたい場合、
初めに bind マウントのトリックを使って、ディレクトリをマウントポイントにすること。
.sp
.nf
.RS
mount --bind $DIR $DIR
.RE
.fi

.\"O .SH AUTHORS
.SH 著者
.nf
Peter Jones <pjones@redhat.com>
Jeremy Katz <katzj@redhat.com>
Karel Zak <kzak@redhat.com>
.fi
.\"O .SH "SEE ALSO"
.SH 関連項目
.BR chroot (2),
.BR init (8),
.BR mkinitrd (8),
.BR mount (8)
.\"O .SH AVAILABILITY
.SH 入手方法
.\"O The switch_root command is part of the util-linux package and is available from
.\"O https://www.kernel.org/pub/linux/utils/util-linux/.
switch_root コマンドは util-linux パッケージの一部であり、
https://www.kernel.org/pub/linux/utils/util-linux/
から入手できる。
