.\" wdctl.8 --
.\" Copyright (C) 2012 Karel Zak <kzak@redhat.com>
.\" May be distributed under the GNU General Public License
.\"
.\" Japanese Version Copyright (c) 2020 Yuichi SATO
.\"         all rights reserved.
.\" Translated Sat May  2 04:32:42 JST 2020
.\"         by Yuichi SATO <ysato444@ybb.ne.jp>
.\" Updated & Modified Thu Feb  4 23:29:48 JST 2021 by Yuichi SATO
.\"
.TH WDCTL "8" "July 2014" "util-linux" "System Administration"
.\"O .SH NAME
.SH 名前
.\"O wdctl \- show hardware watchdog status
wdctl \- ハードウェアウォッチドッグ (watchdog) の状態を表示する。
.\"O .SH SYNOPSIS
.SH 書式
.B wdctl
[options]
.RI [ device ...]
.\"O .SH DESCRIPTION
.SH 説明
.\"O Show hardware watchdog status.  The default device is
.\"O .IR /dev/watchdog .
.\"O If more than one device is specified then the output is separated by
.\"O one blank line.
ハードウェアウォッチドッグの状態を表示する。
デフォルトのデバイスは
.I /dev/watchdog
である。
2 つ以上のデバイスが指定された場合、出力は空行で区切られる。
.PP
.\"O If the device is already used or user has no permissions to read from the device than
.\"O .B wdctl
.\"O reads data from sysfs.  In this case information about supported features (flags) might be missing.
デバイスが既に使われている場合、またはユーザーにデバイスを読み込む
権限がない場合、
.B wdctl
はデータを sysfs から読み込む。
この場合、サポートされる機能 (フラグ) についての情報が、なくなるかもしれない。
.PP
.\"O Note that the number of supported watchdog features is hardware specific.
サポートされるウォッチドッグの機能の数は、ハードウェア依存である点に
注意すること。
.\"O .SH OPTIONS
.SH オプション
.TP
.BR \-f , " \-\-flags " \fIlist
.\"O Print only the specified flags.
指定されたフラグのみを表示する。
.TP
.BR \-F , " \-\-noflags"
.\"O Do not print information about flags.
フラグについての情報を表示しない。
.TP
.BR \-I , " \-\-noident"
.\"O Do not print watchdog identity information.
ウォッチドッグの識別情報を表示しない。
.TP
.BR \-n , " \-\-noheadings"
.\"O Do not print a header line for flags table.
フラグテーブルのヘッダ行を表示しない。
.IP "\fB\-o\fR, \fB\-\-output \fIlist\fP"
.\"O Define the output columns to use in table of watchdog flags.  If no
.\"O output arrangement is specified, then a default set is used.  Use
.\"O .B \-\-help
.\"O to get list of all supported columns.
ウォッチドッグのテーブルで使う出力カラムを定義する。
出力の配置を指定しない場合、デフォルトのセットが使われる。
全てのサポートされるカラムのリストを取得するには、
.B \-\-help
を使うこと。
.TP
.BR \-O , " \-\-oneline"
.\"O Print all wanted information on one line in key="value" output format.
全ての必要な情報を 1 行の key="value" 出力形式で表示する。
.TP
.BR \-r , " \-\-raw"
.\"O Use the raw output format.
生の出力形式を使う。
.TP
.BR \-s , " \-settimeout " \fIseconds
.\"O Set the watchdog timeout in seconds.
ウォッチドッグのタイムアウトを秒単位で指定する。
.TP
.BR \-T , " \-\-notimeouts"
.\"O Do not print watchdog timeouts.
ウォッチドッグのタイムアウトを表示しない。
.IP "\fB\-x\fR, \fB\-\-flags\-only\fP"
.\"O Same as \fB\-I \-T\fP.
\fB\-I \-T\fP と同じ
.TP
.BR \-V , " \-\-version"
.\"O Display version information and exit.
バージョン情報を表示して、終了する。
.TP
.BR \-h , " \-\-help"
.\"O Display help text and exit.
ヘルプを表示して、終了する。
.\"O .SH AUTHORS
.SH 著者
.MT kzak@\:redhat\:.com
Karel Zak
.ME
.br
.MT lennart@\:poettering\:.net
Lennart Poettering
.ME
.\"O .SH AVAILABILITY
.SH 入手方法
.\"O The
.\"O .B wdctl
.\"O command is part of the util-linux package and is available from
.\"O .UR https://\:www.kernel.org\:/pub\:/linux\:/utils\:/util-linux/
.\"O Linux Kernel Archive
.\"O .UE .
.B wdctl
コマンドは util-linux パッケージの一部であり、
.UR https://\:www.kernel.org\:/pub\:/linux\:/utils\:/util-linux/
Linux Kernel Archive
.UE
から入手できる。
