.\"
.\" Japanese Version Copyright (c) 2020-2021 Yuichi SATO
.\"         all rights reserved.
.\" Translated Sat May  2 16:53:15 JST 2020
.\"         by Yuichi SATO <ysato444@ybb.ne.jp>
.\" Updated & Modified Fri Feb  5 00:05:35 JST 2021 by Yuichi SATO
.\"
.TH ZRAMCTL 8 "July 2014" "util-linux" "System Administration"
.\"O .SH NAME
.SH 名前
.\"O zramctl \- set up and control zram devices
zramctl \- zram デバイスの設定と制御を行う。
.\"O .SH SYNOPSIS
.SH 書式
.ad l
.\"O Get info:
情報を取得する:
.sp
.in +5
.BR zramctl " [options]"
.sp
.in -5
.\"O Reset zram:
zram をリセットする:
.sp
.in +5
.B "zramctl \-r"
.IR zramdev ...
.sp
.in -5
.\"O Print name of first unused zram device:
使用されていない最初の zram デバイスの名前を表示する:
.sp
.in +5
.B "zramctl \-f"
.sp
.in -5
.\"O Set up a zram device:
zram デバイスを設定する:
.sp
.in +5
.B zramctl
.RB [ \-f " | "\fIzramdev\fP ]
.RB [ \-s
.IR size ]
.RB [ \-t
.IR number ]
.RB [ \-a
.IR algorithm ]
.sp
.in -5
.ad b
.\"O .SH DESCRIPTION
.SH 説明
.\"O .B zramctl
.\"O is used to quickly set up zram device parameters, to reset zram devices, and to
.\"O query the status of used zram devices.
.B zramctl
は zram デバイスのパラメータを手早く設定したり、zram デバイスをリセットしたり、
使用されている zram デバイスの状態を取得したりするのに使われる。
.PP
.\"O If no option is given, all non-zero size zram devices are shown.
オプションが指定されない場合、サイズが 0 でない全ての zram デバイスが表示される。
.PP
.\"O Note that \fIzramdev\fP node specified on command line has to already exist. The command
.\"O .B zramctl
.\"O creates a new /dev/zram<N> nodes only when \fB\-\-find\fR option specified. It's possible
.\"O (and common) that after system boot /dev/zram<N> nodes are not created yet.
コマンドラインで指定した \fIzramdev\fP ノードは、既に存在していなればならない点に注意すること。
.B zramctl
は \fB\-\-find\fR オプションが指定された場合にのみ、
新しい /dev/zram<N> ノードを作成する。
システムのブート後、/dev/zram<N> ノードがまだ作成されていない可能性もある
(そして、それが一般的である)。
.\"O .SH OPTIONS
.SH オプション
.TP
.BR \-a , " \-\-algorithm lzo" | lz4 | lz4hc | deflate | 842
.\"O Set the compression algorithm to be used for compressing data in the zram device.
zram デバイスでデータの圧縮に使われるアルゴリズムを設定する。
.TP
.BR \-f , " \-\-find"
.\"O Find the first unused zram device.  If a \fB\-\-size\fR argument is present, then
.\"O initialize the device.
使用されていない最初の zram デバイスを見つける。
\fB\-\-size\fR 引き数が存在する場合、デバイスの初期化が行われる。
.TP
.BR \-n , " \-\-noheadings"
.\"O Do not print a header line in status output.
状態の出力でヘッダ行を表示しない。
.TP
.BR \-o , " \-\-output " \fIlist
.\"O Define the status output columns to be used.  If no output arrangement is
.\"O specified, then a default set is used.
.\"O Use \fB\-\-help\fP to get a list of all supported columns.
使用する状態の出力カラムを定義する。
出力の配置が指定されていない場合、デフォルトのセットが使われる。
全てのサポートされるカラムのリストを取得するには、\fB\-\-help\fP を使うこと。
.TP
.B \-\-output\-all
.\"O Output all available columns.
全ての利用可能なカラムを出力する。
.TP
.B \-\-raw
.\"O Use the raw format for status output.
状態の出力で生の形式を使う。
.TP
.BR \-r , " \-\-reset"
.\"O Reset the options of the specified zram device(s).  Zram device settings
.\"O can be changed only after a reset.
指定した zram デバイスのオプションをリセットする。
zram デバイスの設定は、リセット後にのみ変更できる。
.TP
.BR \-s , " \-\-size " \fIsize
.\"O Create a zram device of the specified \fIsize\fR.
.\"O Zram devices are aligned to memory pages; when the requested \fIsize\fR is
.\"O not a multiple of the page size, it will be rounded up to the next multiple.
.\"O When not otherwise specified, the unit of the \fIsize\fR parameter is bytes.
zram デバイスを指定した \fIsize\fR で作成する。
zram デバイスはメモリページに調整される。
要求された \fIsize\fR がページサイズの倍数でない場合、次に大きな倍数に丸められる。
単位が何も指定されない場合、\fIsize\fR 引き数の単位はバイトである。
.IP
.\"O The \fIsize\fR argument may be followed by the multiplicative suffixes KiB (=1024),
.\"O MiB (=1024*1024), and so on for GiB, TiB, PiB, EiB, ZiB and YiB (the "iB"
.\"O is optional, e.g., "K" has the same meaning as "KiB") or the suffixes
.\"O KB (=1000), MB (=1000*1000), and so on for GB, TB, PB, EB, ZB and YB.
\fIsize\fR 引き数の後ろに倍数のサフィックス KiB (=1024),
MiB (=1024*1024), GiB, TiB, PiB, EiB, ZiB, YiB を付けることができる
("iB" はオプションであり、例えば "K" は "KiB" と同じ意味である)。
また、サフィックス KB (=1000), MB (=1000*1000), GB, TB, PB, EB, ZB, YB を
付けることもできる。
.TP
.BR \-t , " \-\-streams " \fInumber
.\"O Set the maximum number of compression streams that can be used for the device.
.\"O The default is one stream.
デバイスとして使用可能な圧縮ストリームの最大数を設定する。
デフォルトは 1 つのストリームである。
.TP
.BR \-V , " \-\-version"
.\"O Display version information and exit.
バージョン情報を表示して、終了する。
.TP
.BR \-h , " \-\-help"
.\"O Display help text and exit.
ヘルプを表示して、終了する。

.\"O .SH RETURN VALUE
.SH 返り値
.\"O .B zramctl
.\"O returns 0 on success, nonzero on failure.
.B zramctl
は、成功した場合は 0 を返し、失敗した場合は 0 以外を返す。

.\"O .SH FILES
.SH ファイル
.TP
.I /dev/zram[0..N]
.\"O zram block devices
zram ブロックデバイス

.\"O .SH EXAMPLE
.SH 例
.\"O The following commands set up a zram device with a size of one gigabyte
.\"O and use it as swap device.
以下のコマンドでは、サイズ 1GiB の zram デバイスを設定し、スワップデバイスとして使う。
.nf
.IP
# zramctl --find --size 1024M
/dev/zram0
# mkswap /dev/zram0
# swapon /dev/zram0
 ...
# swapoff /dev/zram0
# zramctl --reset /dev/zram0
.fi
.\"O .SH AUTHORS
.SH 著者
.nf
Timofey Titovets <nefelim4ag@gmail.com>
Karel Zak <kzak@redhat.com>
.fi
.\"O .SH SEE ALSO
.SH 関連項目
.\"O .UR http://git.\:kernel.\:org\:/cgit\:/linux\:/kernel\:/git\:/torvalds\:/linux.git\:/tree\:/Documentation\:/admin-guide\:/blockdev\:/zram.rst
.\"O Linux kernel documentation
.\"O .UE .
.UR http://git.\:kernel.\:org\:/cgit\:/linux\:/kernel\:/git\:/torvalds\:/linux.git\:/tree\:/Documentation\:/admin-guide\:/blockdev\:/zram.rst
Linux カーネルのドキュメント
.UE .
.\"O .SH AVAILABILITY
.SH 入手方法
.\"O The zramctl command is part of the util-linux package and is available from
.\"O https://www.kernel.org/pub/linux/utils/util-linux/.
zramctl コマンドは util-linux パッケージの一部であり、
https://www.kernel.org/pub/linux/utils/util-linux/
から入手できる。
